Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025 — February 7, 2025
ContinueNCCN.org
NCCN Guidelines for Patients® available at www.nccn.org/patientsNCCN recognizes the importance of clinical trials and encourages participation when applicable and available. 
Trials should be designed to maximize inclusiveness and broad representative enrollment.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Continue NCCN Guidelines Panel DisclosuresNCCN  
Sara Espinosa, PhD
Beth McCullough, RN, BS*Jeremy Bordeaux, MD, MPH/Chair ϖ 
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/  
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center  
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
Sumaira Z. Aasi, MD ϖ 
Stanford Cancer Institute
Murad Alam, MD, MBA, MSCI ϖ ¶ ζ 
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer  
Center of Northwestern University
Arya Amini, MD § 
City of Hope National Medical Center
Kristin Bibee, MD, PhD ϖ  
Johns Hopkins  
Kimmel Cancer Center
Diana Bolotin, MD, PhD ϖ  
The UChicago Medicine  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Pei-Ling Chen, MD, PhD ≠  
Moffitt Cancer Center
Carlo M. Contreras, MD ¶ 
The Ohio State University Comprehensive  
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  
and Solove Research Institute
Dominick DiMaio, MD ≠  
Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
Jessica M. Donigan, MD ϖ ¶  
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of Utah
Daniel Eisen, MD, ϖ  
UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center
Jeffrey M. Farma, MD ¶  
Fox Chase Cancer Center
Karthik Ghosh, MD Þ  
Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer CenterKelly Harms, MD, PhD ϖ 
University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center
Nicole LeBoeuf, MD, MPH ϖ  
Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women’s Cancer  
Center | Mass General Cancer Center
John Nicholas Lukens, MD §  
Abramson Cancer Center  
at the University of Pennsylvania
Susan Manber ¥ 
Publicis Health
Lawrence Mark, MD, PhD ϖ 
Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Stacy McMurray, MD ϖ  
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center
Theresa Medina, MD † 
University of Colorado Cancer Center
Kishwer S. Nehal, MD ϖ   
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
Paul Nghiem, MD, PhD ϖ  
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
Kelly Olino, MD ¶  
Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital
Gyorgy Paragh, MD, PhD, FAAD ϖ 
Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center
Soo Park, MD † 
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
Tejesh Patel, MD ϖ  
The University of Tennessee Health Science Center
Jason Rich, MD ζ 
Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital 
and Washington University School of MedicineAshok R. Shaha, MD ¶  
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
Bhavina Sharma, MD, MPH ‡ 
Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
Olayemi Sokumbi, MD ϖ ≠  
Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center
Divya Srivastava, MD ϖ  
UT Southwestern Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center
Joel Sunshine, MD, PhD ϖ ≠  
Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center
Valencia Thomas, MD ϖ ≠  
The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center
Courtney Tomblinson, MD ф 
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center
*Puja Venkat, MD § 
UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
Yaohui Gloria Xu, MD, PhD ϖ Ÿ 
University of Wisconsin  
Carbone Cancer Center
Siegrid Yu, MD ϖ  
UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center
Mehran Yusuf, MD § 
O’Neal Comprehensive Cancer Center at UAB
ϖ Dermatology
ф  Diagnostic/Interventional 
radiology
‡ Hematology/Hematology 
oncology
Þ Internal medicine
† Medical oncology
ζ Otolaryngology≠ Pathology/
Dermatopathology
¥ Patient advocacy
§ Radiotherapy/Radiation 
oncology
Ÿ Reconstructive surgery
¶ Surgery/Surgical oncology
* Discussion Section Writing 
CommitteePLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
NCCN Basal Cell Skin Cancer Panel Members
Summary of the Guidelines Updates
Clinical Presentation, Workup, Risk Status, and Staging (BCC-1)
Treatment for Low-Risk BCC (BCC-2)
Treatment for High-Risk BCC (BCC-3)
Treatment for Advanced BCC (BCC-4)
Follow-up and Recurrence (BCC-5)
Principles of Pathology (BCC-A)
Stratification to Determine Treatment Options for Local BCC Based on Risk Factors for Recurrence (BCC-B)
Principles of Treatment (BCC-C)
Principles of Radiation Therapy (BCC-D)
Principles of Systemic Therapy (BCC-E)
Principles of Cancer Risk Assessment and Counseling (BCC-F)
Abbreviations (ABBR-1)
The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way . The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may not 
be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. © 2025 .Find an NCCN Member Institution: 
https://www.nccn.org/home/member-
institutions.
NCCN Categories of Evidence and 
Consensus: All recommendations 
are category 2A unless otherwise 
indicated.
See NCCN Categories of Evidence  
and Consensus.
NCCN Categories of Preference:  
All recommendations are considered 
appropriate.
See NCCN Categories of Preference .PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESContinuedUpdates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Basal Cell Skin Cancer from Version 2.2024 include:
BCC-2
• Header added to top left of page: Low-Risk BCC.
• Primary Treatment:
Top options revised: Curettage and electrodesiccation (C&E) or Shave removal (if tumor appears to extend beyond the dermis, surgical excision 
should generally be performed rather than C&E or shave removal) .
Bottom option, fourth bullet revised: Cryotherapy (Useful in Certain Circumstances) .
• New footnote i added: If tumor appears to extend beyond the dermis, surgical excision should generally be performed rather than C&E or shave 
removal. 
• Footnotes revised: 
Footnote l: Determination of the appropriateness of RT should be performed by together with a radiation oncologist. (Also pages BCC-3 and BCC-4)
Footnote n: Afsar FS, et al. Postepy Dermatol Alergol 2015;32:88-93 Current guidelines for low-risk BCC including superficial BCC (sBCC) 
recommend several treatment options including destructive treatment methods, such as cryosurgery with or without prior curettage or curettage and 
electrodesiccation. Backman EJ, et al. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2022;36:1758-1765 .
BCC-3
• Header added to top left of page: High-Risk BCC. 
• Primary Treatment, top option revised: Mohs or other forms of PDEMA (preferred for BCCs that are either recurrent, ≥1 cm in H zone, or ≥1 cm with an 
aggressive histologic subtype  high risk )
• Footnote s revised: Aggressive histologic subtype is defined as: BCC with squamous differentiation, infiltrative, micronodular, morpheaform, 
sclerodermiform, or sclerosing. van Loo E, et al. Eur J Cancer 2014;50:3011-3020. Fraga SD, et al. Dermatol Surg 2022;48:704-710 Curtis KK, et al. J 
Natl Compr Canc Netw 2024;22:e247036.
BCC-4
• Header added to top left of page: Advanced BCC.
• First column revised: Advanced BCC (multidisciplinary discussion and multimodality treatment merits considerations).
• Second column, top option revised: Locally advanced BCC (laBCC) (primary or recurrent extensive disease where surgery and/or RT may not result in 
a cure or would possibly produce a significant functional limitation).
• Primary Treatment:
Following Locally advanced BCC (laBCC), bullet removed: Multidisciplinary consultation to consider one or more of the following options:
Following Nodal Disease:
 ◊First bullet revised: Surgery ± adjuvant RT.
 ◊Bullet removed: Multidisciplinary consultation to consider one or more of the following options:
Following Metastatic disease, bullet removed: Multidisciplinary consultation to consider:Updates in Version 2.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Basal Cell Skin Cancer from Version 1.2025 include:
MS-1
• The discussion section has been updated to reflect changes in the algorithm.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
BCC-4 (continued)
• New footnote w added: Primary or recurrent extensive disease where surgery and/or R T may not result in a cure or would possibly produce a significant 
functional limitation.
• Footnote x revised: Fraga SD, et al. Dermatol Surg 2022;48:704-710. Curtis KK, et al. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2024;22:e247036
• Footnote removed: For clinically diagnosed non-facial BCCs <6 mm in depth on the head, neck, hands, feet, pretibial, and anogenital area that are 
clinically confined to the dermis, C&E or shave removal may be considered as an alternative primary treatment option if Mohs, resection with PDEMA, 
and standard excision are difficult to perform due to patient comorbidities (eg, thrombocytopenia, immunosuppression, bleeding diathesis, multiple 
primary BCCs). See Risk Factors for Recurrence (BCC-B).
BCC-B
• H&P:
First row revised: Location/ size diameter (cm)
Second row revised: Clinical borders
• Pathology, first row revised: Histologic  subtype.
• Footnote b revised: This area constitutes high risk based on location, independent of size. Narrow excision margins due to anatomic and functional 
constraints are associated with increased recurrence rates with standard histologic processing. Complete margin assessment such as with Mohs or /
PDEMA is recommended for optimal tumor clearance and maximal tissue conservation . For tumors <6 mm in size, without other high-risk features, 
other treatment modalities may be considered if at least 4-mm clinically tumor-free margins can be obtained without significant anatomic or functional 
distortions.
BCC-C
• Footnote removed: Cure rates are approximately 10% lower than for surgical treatment modalities. Jansen MHE, Mosterd K, Arits AHMM, et al. Five-
year results of a randomized controlled trial comparing effectiveness of photodynamic therapy , topical imiquimod, and topical 5-fluorouracil in patients 
with superficial basal cell carcinoma. J Invest Dermatol 2018;138:527-533. Drew BA, Karia PS, Mora AN, et al. Treatment patterns, outcomes, and 
patient satisfaction of primary epidermally limited nonmelanoma skin cancer. Dermatol Surg 2017;43:1423-1430.
• New references added:
Allen NC, Martin AJ, Snaidr VA, et al. Nicotinamide for Skin-Cancer Chemoprevention in Transplant Recipients. N Engl J Med 2023;388:804-812.
Mainville L, Smilga AS, Fortin PR. Effect of Nicotinamide in Skin Cancer and Actinic Keratoses Chemoprophylaxis, and Adverse Effects Related to 
Nicotinamide: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. J Cutan Med Surg 2022;26:297-308.
BCC-D
• General Principles, new bullets added:
Refer to the ASTRO Guideline on Definitive and Postoperative Radiation Therapy for Basal and Squamous Cell Cancers of the Skin for general 
indications and dose recommendations.
Image-guided radiation therapy (IGRT) is considered best practice when treating with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), proton beam 
radiotherapy, or 3-D conformal radiation. The use of IGRT for other types of radiotherapy to treat skin cancer is considered unnecessary.
• Header removed: General Treatment Information.
• New footnote added: See Discussion.
• Footnote removed: ASTRO Guideline on Definitive and Postoperative Radiation Therapy for Basal and Squamous Cell Cancers of the Skin
• Reference added: Likhacheva A, Awan M, Barker CA, et al. Definitive and Postoperative Radiation Therapy for Basal and Squamous Cell Cancers of 
the Skin: Executive Summary of an American Society for Radiation Oncology Clinical Practice Guideline. Pract Radiat Oncol 2020;10:8-20 .
UPDATESUpdates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Basal Cell Skin Cancer from Version 2.2024 include:PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CLINICAL 
PRESENTATIONPRELIMINARY
WORKUPRISK STATUSc
Lesion 
suspicious 
for skin 
cancer• H&P
• Biopsya,b
• Shave removal 
if applicableLow risk
High riskb,d,e BCC-2
BCC-3
a Principles of Pathology (BCC-A) .
b Risk Factors for Recurrence (BCC-B) .
c Morgan FC, et al. J Am Acad Dermatol 2021;85:582-587.
d Extensive disease includes deep involvement such as bone, named nerves, and deep soft tissue. If disease of named nerve(s) is suspected, MRI with and without 
contrast is preferred. If bone disease is suspected, CT with contrast is preferred unless contraindicated.
e Any high-risk factor places the patient in the high-risk category.
f For rare cases that present with regional or distant metastatic disease at diagnosis, treat per nodal or metastatic pathways on BCC-4.
g Imaging modality and targeted area should be at the discretion of the treating team based on the suspected extent of disease (ie, local, regional, metastatic). Histologic 
confirmation is sufficient to diagnose local recurrence, but MRI with and without contrast can be considered to assess extent of local disease. For nodal or distant 
metastasis, histologic analysis and/or CT imaging can be used for confirmation and to gauge extent of disease.
BCC-1DIAGNOSIS
Basal cell  
carcinoma 
(BCC)
Initial presentation 
of regional or 
distant metastatic 
diseasefImaging studies of 
areas of interest 
as indicated for 
suspicion of 
extensive diseased,gConsider imaging 
if clinical exam 
insufficient for 
determining disease 
extentgADDITIONAL 
WORKUP
Complete 
skin 
examination
Locally 
advanced 
disease
BCC-4PRIMARY 
TREATMENTSTAGING
Consider imaging to 
determine disease 
extentPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PRIMARY TREATMENThADDITIONAL TREATMENT
Low-risk 
BCCa,b
BCC-2or
Standard excision with 4-mm clinical margins 
and postoperative margin assessment. Tissue 
rearrangement (eg, flap reconstruction, extensive 
undermining) should not be undertaken until 
clear margins are identified (second intention 
healing, linear repair, or skin graft are acceptable)
or
Non-surgical modalities for tumors clinically and histologically 
consistent with superficial BCC (without dermal extension):
• Topical imiquimodm (preferred)
• Topical 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)m (Useful in Certain Circumstances)
• Photodynamic therapym (eg, topical aminolevulinic acid [ALA], 
porfimer sodium [category 2B]) (Useful in Certain Circumstances)
•  Cryotherapy (Useful in Certain Circumstances)nPositive 
margins
Negative 
marginsMohso,p or other forms of 
peripheral and deep en face 
margin assessment (PDEMA)q
or
Re-excision if clinically feasible 
or
RTk,l for non-surgical candidatesh
Follow-up
(BCC-5 )
Radiation therapy (RT)k,l for non-surgical candidatesh
or
a Principles of Pathology (BCC-A) .
b Risk Factors for Recurrence (BCC-B) .
h Principles of Treatment (BCC-C) .
i If tumor appears to extend beyond the dermis, surgical excision should 
generally be performed rather than C&E or shave removal.
j Shave removal (shaving of epidermal or dermal lesion) is a sharp 
removal by transverse bowl-shaped slicing to remove epidermal and 
dermal lesions (without including fat) and does not require suture closure. 
Emmett AJ, et al. Plast Reconstr Surg 1987;80:47-54; Abramson AK, et 
al. Dermatol Surg 2013;39:387-392; Wu X, et al. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2015;73:791-798; Dando EE, et al. Dermatol Surg 2023;49:130-134.
k Principles of Radiation Therapy (BCC-D) .
l Determination of the appropriateness of RT should be performed
together with a radiation oncologist.m Cure rates are approximately 10% lower than for surgical treatment modalities. Jansen 
MHE, et al. J Invest Dermatol 2018;138:527-533 ; Drew BA, et al. Dermatol Surg 
2017;43:1423-1430.
n Current guidelines for low-risk BCC including superficial BCC (sBCC) recommend several 
treatment options including destructive treatment methods, such as cryosurgery with or 
without prior curettage or curettage and electrodesiccation. Backman EJ, et al. J Eur Acad 
Dermatol Venereol 2022;36:1758-1765 .
o Mohs surgery should be performed by dermatologic surgeons who have specialized training 
and experience in this procedure.
p As per other appropriate use criteria. Task Force/Committee Members; Vidal CI, et al. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 2019;80:189-207.
q PDEMA  with permanent section analysis or intraoperative frozen section analysis is 
an alternative to Mohs . See Principles of PDEMA Technique (SCC-G) within the NCCN 
Guidelines for Squamous Cell Skin Cancer .Curettage and electrodesiccation (C&E)iLOW-RISK  
BCC
Shave removali,jorPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
BCC-3PRIMARY TREATMENThADDITIONAL TREATMENT
High-risk 
BCCa,b,eStandard excision with 
wider surgical marginst 
and postoperative 
margin assessment and 
second intention healing, 
linear repair, or skin graftMohso,p or other forms 
of PDEMA (preferred for 
BCCs that are high risk )q,r,s
orNegative 
marginsPositive 
margins
Follow-up  
(BCC-5 )If extensive perineural or large-nerve 
involvement,b,u consider adjuvant RTh,k,l,vMultidisciplinary consultation to 
discuss options:
• Re-resect,  
if feasible 
or
• RTk,l
or 
If surgery and/or RTl are not curativeor
For non-surgical candidatesh consider 
multidisciplinary consultation and 
discussion of definitive RTk,lFollow-up 
(BCC-5 )
Advanced 
BCC (BCC-4 )
a Principles of Pathology (BCC-A) .
b Risk Factors for Recurrence (BCC-B) .
e Any high-risk factor places the patient in the high-risk category.
h Principles of Treatment (BCC-C) .
k Principles of Radiation Therapy (BCC-D) .
l Determination of the appropriateness of RT should be 
performed together with a radiation oncologist.
o Mohs surgery should be performed by dermatologic surgeons 
who have specialized training and experience in this 
procedure.
p As per other appropriate use criteria. Task Force/Committee 
Members; Vidal CI, et al. J Am Acad Dermatol 2019;80:189-
207.
q PDEMA with permanent section analysis or intraoperative 
frozen section analysis is an alternative to Mohs. See 
Principles of PDEMA Technique (SCC-G) within the NCCN 
Guidelines for Squamous Cell Skin Cancer .r For clinically diagnosed non-facial BCCs <6 mm in depth on the head, neck, hands, feet, pretibial, 
and anogenital area that are clinically confined to the dermis, C&E or shave removal may be 
considered as an alternative primary treatment option if Mohs, resection with PDEMA, and 
standard excision are difficult to perform due to patient comorbidities (eg, thrombocytopenia, 
immunosuppression, bleeding diathesis, multiple primary BCCs). See Risk Factors for Recurrence 
(BCC-B). 
s Aggressive histologic subtype is defined as: BCC with squamous dif ferentiation, infiltrative, 
micronodular, morpheaform, sclerodermiform, or sclerosing. van Loo E, et al. Eur J Cancer 
2014;50:3011-3020 ; Curtis KK, et al. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2024;22:e247036.  
t Due to the wide variability of clinical characteristics that may define a high-risk tumor, it is not feasible 
to recommend a defined margin for standard excision of high-risk BCC. Keen awareness of the 
subclinical extension of BCC is advised when selecting a treatment modality without complete margin 
assessment for a high-risk tumor. These margins may need to be modified based on tumor- or 
patient-specific factors.
u If named nerve involvement is suspected, consider MRI with and without contrast of region of interest 
to evaluate extent and rule out base of skull involvement or intracranial extension in head and neck 
tumors.
v There are conflicting data about the value of adjuvant RT following margin-negative surgical excision, 
particularly after Mohs.HIGH-RISK BCCPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PRIMARY TREATMENTh
Advanced BCC
(multidisciplinary 
discussion and 
multimodality 
treatment merits 
considerations)a,b,eFollow-up
(BCC-5 )
BCC-4Locally advanced 
BCC (laBCC)w
Metastatic diseaseNodal disease• Surgery ± adjuvant RTk,l
or
• If surgery is not feasible then 
RTk,l or systemic therapy (BCC-E)
or
• Clinical trial
• Systemic therapy ( BCC-E)
or
• RTk,l or surgery for limited metastatic diseasey
or 
• Palliation and best supportive care• Surgery
Consider neoadjuvant systemic therapy (BCC-E )
Mohso,p or other forms of PDEMAq,x
Standard excision with vertical histologic sectioning (if Mohs or 
PDEMA are not available)
or
• RTk,l
or
• If surgery and/or RTk,l are not feasible then systemic therapy (BCC-E)
a Principles of Pathology (BCC-A) .
b Risk Factors for Recurrence (BCC-B) .
e Any high-risk factor places the patient in the high-risk category.
h Principles of Treatment (BCC-C) .
k Principles of Radiation Therapy (BCC-D) . 
l Determination of the appropriateness of RT should be performed 
together with  a radiation oncologist.
o Mohs surgery should be performed by dermatologic surgeons who 
have specialized training and experience in this procedure.p As per other appropriate use criteria. Task Force/Committee Members; Vidal CI, et al. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2019;80:189-207.
q PDEMA with permanent section analysis or intraoperative frozen section analysis is an 
alternative to Mohs. See Principles of PDEMA Technique (SCC-G) within the NCCN Guidelines 
for Squamous Cell Skin Cancer .
w Primary or recurrent extensive disease where surgery and/or RT may not result in a cure or 
would possibly produce a significant functional limitation.
x Curtis KK, et al. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2024;22:e247036.
y Under highly selective circumstances, in the context of multidisciplinary consultation, resection of 
limited metastases can be considered.ADVANCED BCCPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
FOLLOW-UP RECURRENCE
• H&P
Including complete skin exam every 
6–12 mo for the first 5 years, and 
then at least annually for lifez
• Consider imaging if clinical exam is 
insufficient for following the diseaseg
• Patient education:
Sun protection
Self-examinationLocal
Advanced disease:
• Locally advanced
• Nodal metastases
• Distant metastasesFollow Primary Treatment pathway 
for High-risk disease (BCC-3)
BCC-5g Imaging modality and targeted area should be at the discretion of the treating team based on the suspected extent of disease (ie, local, regional, metastatic). Histologic 
confirmation is sufficient to diagnose local recurrence, but MRI with and without contrast can be considered to assess extent of local disease. For nodal or distant 
metastasis, histologic analysis and/or CT imaging can be used for confirmation and to gauge extent of disease. 
z Follow-up with a dermatologist is strongly recommended if any of the following criteria are met: past or imminent solid organ, marrow, or hematopoietic cell transplant; one 
or more cutaneous melanomas in the past 5 years; or four or more non-melanoma skin cancers in the past 5 years.Follow Primary Treatment pathways 
for Advanced BCC (BCC-4 )PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
BCC-APRINCIPLES OF PATHOLOGY
Principles of Biopsy Reporting: 
• The intent of a biopsy is for diagnosis, not to assess the margin status.
• Pathologic evaluation of skin biopsies is ideally performed by a dermatologist, pathologist, dermatopathologist, or Mohs surgeon who is 
experienced in interpreting cutaneous neoplasms.
• Clinical information to be submitted on biopsy requisition includes patient  age and gender, clinical diameter of lesion, anatomic location, 
and prior treatment of lesion. Additional helpful features to include are immunosuppression and history of R T.
• Pathologic report should include histologic subtypea and presence and extent of any features that would increase the risk for local 
recurrence, including invasion of tumor beyond  reticular dermis and presence of perineural invasion.1
Principles of Excision Reporting:
• The intent of excision is to clear the tumor and thus margin status needs to be reported.
• Saucerization specimens intended for definitive surgical therapy should be labeled as such, as they can be histopathologically difficult to 
distinguish from shave biopsies but must be evaluated for margin status.
• Clinical information to be submitted on excision requisition includes patient age and gender, anatomic location, clinical diameter of lesion,  
and additional clinical information listed above under Principles of Biopsy Reporting.
• Minimal reporting elements to be reported for all surgical specimens include histologic subtype of BCC,a invasion of tumor beyond deep 
reticular dermis, presence of perineural invasion (if involving nerve below dermis or if largest nerve involved is ≥0.1 mm in caliber) and 
angiolymphatic invasion, and peripheral and deep margin status.
• For Mohs excisions, reporting of these elements is also encouraged. Since depth of invasion (in mm) may not be ascertained on 
tangentially cut Mohs specimens, anatomic level of invasion should be reported. Frozen or permanent section analysis of the clinical 
tumor specimen may be undertaken if needed for complete reporting of features associated with poor prognosis.2
Footnotes
a Low-risk histologic subtypes include nodular, superficial, and other non-aggressive growth patterns such as keratotic, infundibulocystic, and fibroepithelioma of Pinkus ; 
high-risk subtypes include basosquamous, infiltrative, sclerosing/morpheaform, micronodular , and BCC with carcinosarcomatous differentiation.
References
1 Work Group; Invited Reviewers; Kim JYS, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of basal cell carcinoma. J Am Acad Dermatol 2018;78:540-559.
2 Morgan FC, Ruiz ES, Karia PS, et al. Brigham and Women's Hospital tumor classification system for basal cell carcinoma identifies patients with risk of metastasis and 
death. J Am Acad Dermatol 2021;85:582-587.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
STRATIFICATION TO DETERMINE TREATMENT OPTIONS FOR LOCAL BCC BASED ON RISK FACTORS  
FOR RECURRENCEa
a Any high-risk factor places the patient in the high-risk category.
b Narrow excision margins due to anatomic and functional constraints are associated with increased recurrence rates with standard histologic processing. Complete 
margin assessment with Mohs /PDEMA is recommended . For tumors <6 mm in size, without other high-risk features, other treatment modalities may be considered if at 
least 4-mm clinically tumor-free margins can be obtained without significant anatomic or functional distortions.  
c Low-risk histologic subtypes include nodular, superficial, and other non-aggressive growth patterns such as keratotic, infundibulocystic, and fibroepithelioma of Pinkus. 
d Having basosquamous, infiltrative, sclerosing/morpheaform, micronodular , and BCC with carcinosarcomatous differentiation features in any portion of the tumor. In 
some cases, basosquamous tumors may be prognostically similar to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC); clinicopathologic correlation is recommended in these cases to 
further consider prognostic implication.
BCC-BRisk Group Low Risk High Risk
Treatment options BCC-2 BCC-3
H&P
Location/diameter (cm) Trunk, extremities <2 cmTrunk, extremities ≥2 cm
 Head, neck, hands, feet, pretibial, and anogenital area (any size)b
Clinical borders Well-defined Poorly-defined
Primary vs. recurrent Primary Recurrent
Immunosuppression (-) (+)
Site of prior RT (-) (+)
Pathology ( BCC-A )
Histologic subtype Nodular, superficialcAggressive growth patternd
Perineural involvement (-) (+)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
BCC-CPRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT
Footnotes
a Mohs surgery should be performed by dermatologic surgeons who have specialized training and experience in this procedure.
References
1 Chen AC, Martin AJ, Dalziell RA, et al. A phase II randomized controlled trial of nicotinamide for skin cancer chemoprevention in renal transplant recipients. Br J 
Dermatol 2016;175:1073-1075. 
2 Chen AC, Martin AJ, Choy B, et al. A phase 3 randomized trial of nicotinamide for skin-cancer chemoprevention. N Engl J Med 2015;373:1618-1626.
3 Allen NC, Martin AJ, Snaidr VA, et al. Nicotinamide for Skin-Cancer Chemoprevention in Transplant Recipients. N Engl J Med 2023;388:804-812.
4 Mainville L, Smilga AS, Fortin PR. Effect of Nicotinamide in Skin Cancer and Actinic Keratoses Chemoprophylaxis, and Adverse Effects Related to Nicotinamide: A 
Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. J Cutan Med Surg 2022;26:297-308.• The primary treatment goals of BCC is the complete removal of the tumor and the maximal preservation of function and cosmesis. 
All treatment decisions should be customized to account for the particular factors present in the individual case and for the patient’ s 
preference. 
• Surgical approaches often offer the most effective and efficient means for accomplishing cure, but considerations of function, cosmesis, 
and patient preference may lead to choosing RT/topical therapy/systemic therapy as primary treatment in order to achieve optimal overall 
results.
• In certain patients at high risk for multiple primary tumors (eg, basal cell nevus syndrome [Gorlin syndrome], xeroderma pigmentosum, 
history of RT), increased surveillance and consideration of prophylactic measures may be indicated. Refer patients with suspected basal cell 
nevus syndrome or xeroderma pigmentosum for genetic evaluation.
• In patients with superficial basal cell skin cancer, non-surgical modalities may be considered. (See  BCC-2 )
• When Mohsa with margin assessment is being performed and the preoperative biopsy is considered insufficient for providing all the staging 
information required to properly treat the tumor, submission of the central specimen for vertical paraffin-embedded permanent sections or 
documentation of staging parameters in Mohs report is recommended.
• Use of nicotinamide may be effective in reducing the development of basal cell skin cancers.1-4PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
BCC-DPRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
General Principles
• Refer to the ASTRO Guideline on Definitive and Postoperative Radiation Therapy for Basal and Squamous Cell Cancers of the Skin1for 
general indications and dose recommendations.
• Protracted fractionation is associated with improved cosmetic results and should be utilized for poorly vascularized or cartilaginous areas.
• RT is contraindicated for  genetic conditions predisposing to skin cancer (eg, basal cell nevus syndrome and relatively contraindicated for 
patients with connective tissue diseases (eg, scleroderma). 
• Given higher complication rates, reirradiation should not be routinely utilized for recurrent disease within a prior radiation field.
• Isotope-based brachytherapy can be an effective treatment for certain sites of disease, particularly on the head and neck.a
• There are insufficient long-term efficacy and safety data to support the routine use of electronic surface brachytherapy .a
• Image-guided radiation therapy (IGRT) is considered best practice when treating with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), 
proton beam radiotherapy, or 3-D conformal radiation. The use of IGRT for other types of radiotherapy to treat skin cancer is considered 
unnecessary.a
• Radiation treatments should be given by a practicing radiation oncologist with radiation physics support to meet established quality 
assurance and dosimetric constraints.
• BED = Biologically effective dose
• Conventionally fractionated radiotherapy consists of five daily treatments per week. 
• Hypofractionated radiotherapy consists of daily treatments or two to four treatments per week. Fraction sizes larger than 6 Gy are not routinely 
recommended outside of the palliative setting.Primary Tumor RT Dosing
Definitive RT BED10 of 70–93 Gy for conventional fractionation
BED10 of 56–88 Gy for hypofractionation
Postoperative adjuvant RT BED10 of 60–79 Gy for conventional fractionation
BED10 of 56–70 Gy for hypofractionation
Regional Disease
• Lymph node regions, after lymph node dissection
Negative margins, no extranodal extension (ENE)
Positive margins or ENE50–60 Gy over 5 to 6 weeks
60–66 Gy over 6 to 7 weeks
• Lymph node regions, without lymph node dissection
Clinically positive 60–70 Gy over 6 to 7 weeks
• Clinically at-risk nerves 50–60 Gy over 5 to 6 weeks
Footnote
a See Discussion
Reference
1 Likhacheva A, Awan M, Barker CA, et al. Definitive and Postoperative Radiation Therapy for Basal and Squamous Cell Cancers of the Skin: Executive Summary of an 
American Society for Radiation Oncology Clinical Practice Guideline. Pract Radiat Oncol 2020;10:8-20.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Locally Advanced (laBCC), Nodal or Distant Metastatic Basal Cell Carcinoma (mBCC)
• Systemic therapy may be considered for laBCC. Locally advanced disease is defined by those that have primary or recurrent extensive 
disease where surgery and/or RT may not result in a cure or would possibly produce a significant functional limitation.
• Systemic therapy may be considered for cases of nodal or distant metastatic disease, especially if surgery and RT are not feasible.
• Multidisciplinary consultation may be required to determine the best treatment approach and deem the tumor not amendable to surgery or 
RT. 
• Hedgehog pathway inhibitors (HHIs)
Due to frequency of intolerable side effects associated with HHIs, drug holidays or other alternatives to daily dosing can be used to 
reduce side effects to improve adherence to therapy and quality of life.
HHIs may be considered for diffuse BCC formation (eg, basal cell nevus syndrome or other genetic forms of multiple BCC). HHIs are not 
FDA approved for basal cell nevus syndrome; however, they may be used off-label and are effective based on a randomized controlled 
trial.1
• The role of adjuvant systemic therapy for resected BCC is unclear and thus, adjuvant systemic therapy is best performed in a clinical trial 
setting.
Preferred Regimens Other Recommended Regimens Useful in Certain Circumstances
Locally Advanced Disease - 
Neoadjuvant• None • Vismodegiba,2 (category 2B) • Cemiplimab-rwlcb (category 2B)
Locally Advanced Disease • None • Sonidegib3
• Vismodegib4,5• Cemiplimab-rwlcb,c,6
Nodal Disease • None • Vismodegib
• Sonidegib3 (category 2B)• Cemiplimab-rwlcb
Metastatic Disease • None • Vismodegib4,5• Cemiplimab-rwlcb,6
a In one study of 55 patients with laBCC, neoadjuvant administration of vismodegib before planned surgery allowed for a smaller surgical procedure in 
71% of patients, although it carried a high (36.4%) recurrence risk.2 
b Cemiplimab-rwlc is FDA approved for patients with laBCC or mBCC previously treated with an HHI or for whom an HHI is not appropriate. 
c A multinational single-arm phase 2 trial, consisting of 84 patients with locally advanced BCC (local invasion precluding complete resection or in 
locations for which surgery may result in severe disfigurement or dysfunction) whose disease had progressed on or was intolerant to prior HHI 
therapy, was conducted. Thirty-one percent had an objective response, including 6% with a complete response. See  Discussion .6PRINCIPLES OF SYSTEMIC THERAPY
BCC-E
1 OF 2References on 
BCC-E (2 of 2)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
1 Tang JY, Ally MS, Chanana AM, et al. Inhibition of the hedgehog pathway in patients with basal-cell nevus syndrome: final results from the multicentre, randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:1720-1731.
2 Bertrand N, Guerreschi P, Basset-Seguin N, et al. Vismodegib in neoadjuvant treatment of locally advanced basal cell carcinoma: First results of a multicenter, open-
label, phase 2 trial (VISMONEO study): Neoadjuvant Vismodegib in Locally Advanced Basal Cell Carcinoma. eClinicalMedicine 2021;35:100844.
3 Dummer R, Guminksi A, Gutzmer R, et al. Long-term efficacy and safety of sonidegib in patients with advanced basal cell carcinoma: 42-month analysis of the phase II 
randomized, double-blind BOLT study. Br J Dermatol 2020;182:1369-1378.
4 Sekulic A, Migden MR, Oro AE, et al. Efficacy and safety of vismodegib in advanced basal-cell carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2012;366:2171-2179. 
5 Dreno B, Basset-Seguin N, Caro I, Yue H, Schadendorf D. Clinical benefit assessment of vismodegib therapy in patients with advanced basal cell carcinoma. 
Oncologist 2014;19:790-796. 
6 Stratigos AJ, Sekulic A, Peris K, et al. Cemiplimab in locally advanced basal cell carcinoma after hedgehog inhibitor therapy: an open-label, multi-centre, single-arm, 
phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2021;22:848-857.
BCC-E
2 OF 2REFERENCESPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
BCC-FPRINCIPLES OF CANCER RISK ASSESSMENT AND COUNSELING
• The decision to offer genetic testing involves three related stages:
   1) Pre-test counseling prior to ordering testing;
   2) Consideration of the most appropriate testing strategy; and
   3) Testing result disclosure and post-test counseling.
• In certain patients at high risk for multiple primary tumors (eg, basal cell nevus syndrome, xeroderma pigmentosum, history of RT), 
increased surveillance and consideration of prophylactic measures may be indicated. Patients with these conditions should be referred to a 
cancer center with particular expertise in BCC prevention and prophylaxis.
• It is recommended that a genetic counselor, medical geneticist, endocrinologist, oncologist, surgeon, oncology nurse, or other health 
professional with expertise and experience in cancer genetics be involved at each stage whenever possible. Clinicians without direct referral 
access to the appropriate expertise should be aware of the telehealth genetic counseling options available. These resources can be found 
through the National Society of Genetic Counselors (NSGC) “Find a Genetic Counselor” tool ( www.nsgc.org ).
See the NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, and Pancreatic  for the following:
• Principles of Cancer Risk Assessment and Counseling (EVAL-A)
• Pedigree: First-, Second-, and Third-Degree Relatives of Proband (EVAL-B)
• General Testing Criteria (CRIT-1)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
ALA aminolevulinic acid
BCC basal cell carcinoma 
BED biologically effective dose
C&E curettage and electrodesiccation
ENE extranodal extension
H&P history and physical 
HHI hedgehog pathway inhibitors
IGRT image-guided radiation therapy
IMRT intensity-modulated radiation therapy
laBCC locally advanced basal cell carcinoma
mBCC metastatic basal cell carcinoma
NSGC National Society of Genetic Counselors
PDEMA peripheral and deep en face margin 
assessment 
sBCC superficial basal cell carcinoma
SCC squamous cell carcinomaABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-1PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Basal Cell Skin Cancer
Version 2.2025, 02/07/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CAT-1NCCN Categories of Evidence and Consensus
Category 1 Based upon high-level evidence (≥1 randomized phase 3 trials or high-quality , robust meta-analyses), there is 
uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 2A Based upon lower-level evidence, there is uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 2B Based upon lower-level evidence, there is NCCN consensus (≥50%, but <85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 3 Based upon any level of evidence, there is major NCCN disagreement that the intervention is appropriate. 
All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
NCCN Categories of Preference
Preferred interventionInterventions that are based on superior efficacy, safety, and evidence; and, when appropriate, 
affordability.
Other recommended 
interventionOther interventions that may be somewhat less efficacious, more toxic, or based on less mature data; 
or significantly less affordable for similar outcomes.
Useful in certain 
circumstancesOther interventions that may be used for selected patient populations (defined with recommendation).
All recommendations are considered appropriate.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-1 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
Discussion  
Table of Contents
Overview  ................................ ................................ .....................  MS-2 
Guidelines Update Methodology  ................................ ..................  MS-2 
Literature Search Criteria and Guidelines Update Methodology  ... MS-2 
Sensitive/Inclusive Language  ................................ ......................  MS-2 
Genetics  ................................ ................................ ......................  MS-3 
Clinical Presentation and Workup  ................................ ................  MS-3 
Risk Stratification of Local BCC Based on Risk Factors for Recurrence
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ... MS-3 
History & Physical Examination  ................................ ....................  MS-4 
Pathology  ................................ ................................ ....................  MS-4 
Treatment Modalities for BCC  ................................ ......................  MS-5 
Curettage and Electrodesiccation  ................................ .................  MS-5 
Shave Removal  ................................ ................................ ...........  MS-6 
Standard Excision with Postoperative Margin Assessment  ...........  MS-6 
Mohs Micrographic Surgery and Peripheral and Deep En Face Margin Assessment  ................................ ................................ .................  MS-7
 
Radiation Therapy  ................................ ................................ ........  MS-7 
Superficial Therapies  ................................ ................................ ... MS-9 
Systemic Therapy  ................................ ................................ ...... MS-10 
Follow -up ................................ ................................ ..................  MS-12 
References ................................ ................................ ................  MS-15 
  This discussion  corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Basal Cell Skin Cancer. Last updat ed: Febru ary 7, 202 5. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-2 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 Overview 
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common cancer in the United 
States. It is estimated that BCCs occur in 2 million Americans annuall y, 
exceeding the incidence of all other cancers combined.1-3 BCCs are at 
least two times more common than squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs), 
the second most common type of skin cancer.1-6 Furthermore, the 
incidence of this common malignancy is rising rapidly.1,3,6,7 Compared with 
SCC, BCCs are much less likely to metastasize, with a metastatic rate of <0.1% , and thus generally have a good prognosis .
8-10 Although rarely 
metastatic, BCC can produce substantial local destruction along with 
disfigurement and may involve extensive areas of soft tissue, cartilage, 
and bone.  
A number of risk factors are associated with the development  of BCC.  The 
most recognized environmental carcinogen is sunlight.  Evidence reveals 
that the relationship between sun exposure and BCC is complex, and 
depends on the timing, pattern,  and amount of ultraviolet (UV) radiation.11-
15 Fair skin, red or blond hair, and light eye color are associated with BCC 
as independent risk factors due to greater susceptibility to UV 
damage.13,15- 22 BCC risk is increased by both UV -A and - B radiation as 
well as by ionizing radiation. Radiation therapy (RT) for other conditions, 
especially at a young age, is also associated with an increased risk for 
developing BCC.23-27 Most BCC tumors develop on skin sites exposed to 
radiation—either from the sun or from therapy.23-25  
Guidelines  Update Methodology  
The complete details of the Development and Update of the NCCN 
Guidelines are available at www.NCCN.org . Literature Search Criteria and Guidelines Update 
Methodology  
Prior to the update of this version of the NCCN Guidelines® for Basal Cell 
Skin Cancer , an electronic search of the PubMed database was performed 
to obtain key literature  published since the previous Guidelines update, 
using the search term s: basal cell skin carcinoma . The PubMed database 
was chosen because it remains the most widely used resource for medical 
literature and indexes peer -reviewed biomedical literature.28  
The search  results were  narrowed by selecting studies in humans 
published in English. Results were confined to the following article types: 
Clinical Trial, Phase 2; Clinical Trial, Phase 3; Clinical Trial, Phase 4; 
Guideline; Meta- Analysis; Practice Guideline; Randomized Controlled 
Trial; Systematic Reviews; and Validation Studies.  The data from key 
PubMed articles as well as articles from additional sources deemed as relevant to these guidelines as discussed by the Panel during the 
Guidelines update have been included in this version of the Discussion 
section. Recommendations for which high -level evidence is lacking are 
based on the Panel’s review of lower -level evidence and expert opinion. 
 
Sensitive/Inclusive Language 
NCCN Guidelines strive to use language that advances the goals of 
equity, inclusion, and representation.29 NCCN Guidelines endeavor to use 
language that is person- first; not stigmatizing; anti -racist, anti -classist, anti -
misogynist, anti -ageist, anti -ableist, and anti -weight biased; and inclusive 
of individuals of all sexual orientations and gender identities.  NCCN 
Guidelines incorporate non- gendered language, instead focusing on 
organ- specific recommendations. This language is both more accurate 
and more inclusive and can help fully address the needs of individuals of 
all sexual orientations and gender identit ies. NCCN Guidelines will 
continue to use the terms men, women, female, and male when citing statistics, recommendations, or data from organizations or sources that do PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-3 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
not use inclusive terms. Most studies do not report how sex and gender 
data are collected and use these terms interchangeably or inconsistently. 
If sources do not differentiate gender from sex assigned at birth or organs 
present, the information is presumed to predominantly represent cisgender 
individuals. NCCN encourages researchers to collect more specific data in 
future studies and organizations to use more inclusive and accurate 
language in their future analyses.  
Genetics  
Extensive research has led to advances in the understanding of the 
genetics of BCC. The sonic hedgehog signaling pathway has emerged as 
playing a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of BCC, and mutations in a 
number of molecules in this pathway have been impl icated in the 
development of the disease.30-32 Mutations in the PTCH1  (patched 1) gene 
on chromosome 9q, which codes for the sonic hedgehog receptor, are the 
underlying cause of nevoid BCC syndrome, and are present in 
approximately 30% to 90% of sporadic BCCs.33-41 Specific UV -induced 
mutations in the tumor suppressor gene p53 appear to be a common 
event in BCC development.35,38,41,42 Certain genetic syndromes greatly 
predispose affected individuals to skin cancer formation, including BCC, 
such as albinism43,44 and xeroderma pigmentosum (in which defects exist 
in UV light -induced unscheduled DNA repair).45-51 
Clinical Presentation and Workup  
On clinical presentation of the patient with lesion suspicious of skin cancer , workup for BCC begins with a history and physical examination, 
biopsy, and if applicable a shave removal . A skin biopsy is then performed 
on any suspicious lesion. The biopsy should include deep reticular dermis. 
This procedure is preferred because an infiltrative histology may 
sometimes be present only at the deeper, advancing margins of a tumor, 
and superficial biopsies will frequently miss this component.
52,53 After BCC 
diagnosis, a full skin examination is recommended, because  individuals with skin cancer often have additional, concurrent precancers or cancers located at other, usually sun- exposed skin sites. These individuals are 
also at increased risk of developing cutaneous melanoma.
54  
Risk Stratification of Local BCC Based on Risk Factors 
for Recurrence 
After the complete skin examination, a risk assessment should be 
performed to determine the treatment plan.55 The NCCN Panel examined 
risk factors for BCC associated with recurrence  (see Risk Factors for 
Recurrence  in the algorithm ). Any high- risk factor places the skin lesion in 
the high- risk category  and imaging should be considered if a clinical exam 
is insufficient to determine disease extent . Skin lesions in  populations 
placed at increased  risk may be difficult to assess clinically; therefore, a 
low threshold for performing skin biopsies in these patients is necessary. 
Patients with locally advanced disease,  which is defined as primary or 
recurrent extensive disease where surgery and/or RT may not result in a 
cure or would potentially yield a significant functional limitation, should 
consider imaging to determine disease extent . For rare cases when 
patients present  with regional or distant metastatic disease at diagnosis , 
imaging of areas of interest can be performed when there is suspicion of 
extensive disease prior to treatment as  nodal or distant metastases. 
Imaging studies may be clinically evident when extensive disease , such as 
bone involvement, perineural invasion (PNI) , or deep soft tissue 
involvement , is suspected. If perineural disease is suspected, MRI with  or 
without  contrast is preferred.56,57 If bone disease is suspected, CT with 
contrast is preferred unless contraindicated. Imaging modality and 
targeted area should be at the discretion of the treating team based on the 
suspected extent of disease ( ie, local, regional, metastatic). Histologic 
confirmation is sufficient to diagnose local recurrence, but MRI can be considered to assess extent of local disease. For nodal or distant 
metastases, histologic analysis and/or CT imaging can be used for 
confirmation and to gauge the extent  of disease.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-4 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
History & Physical  Examination  
Location and Diameter  
Anatomic location58-64 and diameter60-66 have  been known to be a risk 
factor for BCC recurrence and metastasis for many years. Historically, 
anatomical areas have been filtered  based on the risk of recurrence for 
high (H -zone), medium (M -zone), and low risk (L- zone) .67-70 Based on a 
27-year retrospective review of 5755 BCCs , recurrences were significantly 
more common when tumors in high -risk locations  (H-zone: central face, 
eyebrows, nose, lips, chin, ear, temple, genitalia, nipples/areola, hands, 
feet, ankles , and  nail units)  were ≥6 mm in diameter and when tumors in 
moderate- risk locations ( M-zone: cheeks, forehead, scalp, neck, jawline, 
pretibial surface) were ≥10 mm in diameter.71 In general, BCCs that 
develop in the head and neck area , which includes the H -zone of the face,  
are more likely to recur than those that develop on the trunk and 
extremities  (L-zone) . The American Academy of Dermatology in 
collaboration with American College of Mohs Surgery, American Society 
for Dermatologic Surgery Association, and American Society for Mohs 
Surgery developed an appropriate use criteria document in the treatment 
of cutaneous neoplasms  based on 270 clinical scenarios including 69 
BCCs ,72 which has been incorporated into R isk Factors for Recurrence  
within the algorithm .  
Clinical Borders and Primary Versus Recurrent Disease  
The low- and high- risk factors of well- defined versus ill -defined clinical 
tumor borders73-75 and primary versus recurrent disease,62,74,76 
respectively,  have been extensively documented in the literature.   
Immunosuppression  
Settings of immunosuppression, such as organ transplantation,77-82 and 
long- term use of psoralen and UVA (PUVA ) light,83,84 increase the 
incidence of BCC. In particular,  among patients who have had organ 
transplants , BCC incidence  is approximately 5-  to 10 -fold higher than in 
the general population,85-87 occurring in up to half of patients during the 10 years following transplant.88-91 Several large retrospective studies found 
that BCCs in patients who had received organ transplants were more likely to have the superficial histologic subtype and to occur in extracephalic 
locations and in younger patients (mean age of onset 15 years lower) .
92-94 
Two of these studies showed similar low recurrence rates for transplant 
recipients and controls.93,94 Nevertheless, because of NCCN Guidelines 
Panel Members’ own anecdotal experiences, the Panel decided to classify 
BCCs developing in settings of immunosuppression as potentially high- risk 
tumors.  
Site of Prior Radiotherapy  
Tumors developing in sites of prior RT  refer to primary BCCs arising in  
areas previously irradiated for unrelated conditions. All recurrent tumors, 
irrespective of prior therapy, are defined as high risk. Data from a number 
of studies with large sample sizes support that prior RT  for unrelated, 
frequently benign conditions is a risk factor for BCC development.23-27,95,96  
Pathology  
Pathologic Subtypes  
Histologic subtyping of BCC as a predictor of risk of recurrence is a well -
established concept.97,98 The subtypes encompassed by the term 
“aggressive growth pattern,” including micronodular, infiltrative, sclerosing, 
and morpheaform (or desmoplastic) patterns, are  more likely to recur than 
the nodular and superficial BCC.65,73,74,76,99 -103 Non-aggressive subtypes 
include the keratotic variant, infundibulocystic variant, and fibroepithelioma 
of Pinkus.  
Basosquamous carcinomas are tumors  that have the histologic 
appearance of both a BCC and an SCC. Some basosquamous tumors are 
the result of a BCC colliding with an adjacent SCC. Others represent truly 
biphenotypic tumors, many of which may have started as BCC, but have 
subsequently undergone prominent partial squamous metaplasia.104 Data PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-5 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
suggest that basosquamous carcinomas have a metastatic capacity that is 
more similar to that of SCC than BCC.105- 107  
Perineural Involvement  
PNI is uncommon in any nonmelanoma skin cancer ( NMSC ) (2%–6%), 
and develops less frequently and is less aggressive in BCC versus 
SCC.108-113 BCC with PNI  poses a greatly increased risk of recurrence, and 
is associated with other risk factors including previous recurrent tumors, 
high grade, larger lesion size, and  certain subtypes  (infiltrating, 
morpheaform , and basosquamous ).112,114,115 If large nerve involvement is 
suspected, MRI should be considered to evaluate extent and/or rule out 
skull involvement in those with head and neck tumors.57,116- 118 Additionally, 
in the presence of PNI, a thorough cranial nerve exam is indicated.  
Age and  Its Effect on BCC  Behavior  
Whether young age (typically ≤ 40 years) is an independent risk factor for 
aggressive BCC behavior is debatable. An analysis of a large database of 
patients with BCC (N  = 3381) documented an increased percentage of 
BCC with aggressive histologic growth patterns in young persons.119 In 
contrast, results from other analyses of large databases ( N = 1000 to 
>10,000) indicate that patients presenting with BCC at a young age are 
more likely to have the superficial subtype.120- 123 Other analyses report no 
significant differences in BCC histologic subtype between younger  versus 
older patients.124- 126 The relationship between tumor location and patient 
age is also unclear, as several studies showed that younger patients were 
more likely to present with BCCs on the trunk or extremities,120,125,127,128 
while another  found no significant association.124  
Most large studies ( N = 50–2000) have shown no significant association 
between age and recurrence rate.62,74,124,126 One multivariate analysis, 
however, showed a positive relationship between increasing age and 
likelihood of recurrence.129 Age has also been evaluated as a risk factor  
for developing a second or multiple BCCs  and m any of these studies us ing fairly large databases ( N = 200– 2500) found that the risk of developing 
more than one BCC is associated with increased age.65,126,128- 134 On the 
contrary , an analysis of a very  large database ( N = 71,924) found a 
significantly higher risk of subsequent NMSC in patients  <40 years of age 
at the time of their first BCC diagnosis.135 In addition, an analysis of 100 
metastatic BCCs found that patients with distant metastases tended to be 
younger than those with only regional metastases.136 Consistent with this 
idea, the Rotterdam Study showed that while the risk of developing a 
second BCC increased with age,134 the risk of developing multiple BCC 
lesions was highest in patients who were < 65 years  of age at the time of 
their first BCC diagnosis.137 Taken together , these studies suggest that 
young age, in and of itself , is not considered a risk factor for aggressive 
BCC. Nevertheless,  there is a small subset of patients who develop BCC 
at a young age  and may have particularly aggressive disease. These 
patients  may benefit from regular follow -up. 
Treatment Modalities for BCC 
Curettage and Electrodesiccation  
Although a fast and cost -effective technique for superficial lesions, 
curettage and electrodesiccation ( C&E) does not allow histologic margin 
assessment. Studies have reported overall 5 -year recurrence rates  
ranging from  1.2% to 40% in patients with BCC selected for C&E , with 
high- risk locations and histologically aggressive subtypes  reporting higher 
recurrence rates.60,69,138 -146  
This technique is deemed effective for properly selected, low -risk BCC 
with three caveats.60,144 First, C&E should not be used to treat areas with 
terminal hair growth such as the scalp, pubic and axillary regions, or beard area due to the risk that a tumor extending down follicular structures might 
not be adequately removed.  Second, if the subcutaneous layer is reached 
during the course of C&E, then surgical removal  should generally be 
performed instead . This  change in therapy is necessary as the PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-6 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
effectiveness of the C&E technique rests on the ability of the clinician to 
distinguish between firm, normal dermis, and soft tumor tissue when using 
a sharp curette. Since subcutaneous adipose is even softer than tumor 
tissue, the ability of the curette to distinguish and, therefore, selectively and completely remove tumor cells di minishes . Third, if C&E  has been 
performed based only on the appearance of a low -risk tumor, biopsy 
results of the tissue taken at the time of C&E  should be reviewed to make 
sure that there are no high- risk pathologic features that would require 
additional therapy.  For tumors on the cheeks, forehead, scalp, neck, and 
pretibial that are <6 mm in depth and confined to the dermis, C&E may be 
considered as an alternative primary treatment option if Mohs  
micrographic surgery or  resection wi th peripheral and deep en face margin 
assessment ( PDEMA)  and standard excision are not feasible due to 
patient comorbidities.  
Shave Removal  
Shave removal , the shaving of e pidermal or dermal lesions,  is a sharp 
removal by bowl -shaped slicing of the  epidermal and dermal lesions , 
without including fat , and does not require suture closure.
147 Like C&E , 
there is concern for inaccurate margin status assessment  with shave 
removal .148 However, it is a recommended technique for low -risk BCCs 
located in the trunk or extremities . Shave removal studies have reported 
0.5%  to 30%  rate of recurrence  over a 3 - to 5-year follow -up, multiple 
tumors treated in single  visits, and a  risk for misdiagnosis of only 1%.147- 150  
Standard Excision with Postoperative Margin Assessment  
Another therapeutic option for BCC is standard surgical excision followed by postoperative pathologic evaluation of margins. This technique has 
been reported to achieve 5- year recurrence  rates of 0.8% to 1 7.4% for 
BCC, with lower recurrence rates associated with low -risk tumors and 
higher recurrence rates associated with high- risk tumors .
138,140,146,151- 153 
Studies have reported variable margins required to completely excise 95% of all tumor.154- 159 These margins have been  suggested to be 2 to 4 mm  for 
low-risk, well-demarcated tumors < 2 cm,154- 158 whereas margins of 4 to 6 
mm,155 and in one study,  8 mm154 were suggested for high- risk BCC.  
Given this wide variability, studies have r eported incomplete excision rates 
after standard excision ranging from 3.2% to 61.5%  depending on tumor 
location, histologic subtype, and medical provider’s specialty .160- 169 
Therefore, postoperative margin assessment and identification of clear margins are critical to ensure favorable outcomes with standard excision.  
The clinical margins chosen by the P anel for the primary treatment of  low-
risk BCC are based on the work of Zitelli et al .
170 Their analysis indicated 
that for  well-circumscribed BCC lesions < 2 cm in diameter, excision with 
4-mm clinical margins should result in complete removal in >95% of 
cases. The indications for this approach were also expanded to include 
re-excision of low -risk primary BCC if positive margins are obtained after 
an initial excision with postoperative margin assessment.  For high -risk 
BCC, standard excision with wider surgical margins is recommended  as 
the primary treatment . Due to the wide variability of clini cal characteristics 
that may define a high- risk tumor, it is not feasible to recommend a 
defined margin for standard excision of high -risk BCC. Kean awareness of 
the subclinical extension of BCC is advised when selecting a treatment 
modality without complete margin assessment for a high- risk tumor. These 
margins may need to be modified based on tumor - or patient -specific 
factors.  When standard excision with wider surgical margins yields positive 
margins , Mohs or other forms of PDEMA  or standard re- excision are 
recommended (if PDEMA is not feasible).  
For either low -risk or high -risk BCC, when  standard excision is used, 
tissue rearrangement ( eg, flap reconstruction, extensive undermining) 
should not be undertaken until clear margins are identified.  Second,  
intention healing, linear repair, or skin graft are acceptable options.   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-7 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
Mohs Micrographic Surgery and Peripheral and Deep En Face 
Margin Assessment   
PDEMA, or complete margin assessment, is a term used for a subset of 
surgical techniques for high- quality histologic visualization and 
interpretation of the margin surface or surgically excised tissue. Mohs 
micrographic surgery is the most common utilized PDEMA technique. 
Mohs procedures are particularly successful in non- metastatic basal and 
squamous cell skin cancers where tissue -sparing and precision 
microscopic control of margins is a priority  and has been associated with 
lower recurrence rates .171,172 While PDEMA is a team procedure that 
requires the participation  of physicians from multi ple disciplin es, Mohs 
physicians serve as both the surgeon and pathologist  requiring highly  
specialized training. Efforts have been extended to generate consensus 
recommendations to offer Mohs surgeons guidance and promote 
standardization to make data aggregate from multicenter clinical trials 
possible.173  
Mohs  is the preferred surgical technique over standard excision for re-
excision of low -risk BCC after positive margins with standard excision, as 
well as the primary surgical technique of choice for high- risk BCC because 
it allows intraoperative analysis of 100% of the excision margin. Mohs is 
also recommended when standard excision with wider surgical margins is 
unable to achieve negative margins in high -risk BCC.  Two meta -analyses 
published in 1989 associated Mohs  with 5 -year recurrence rates  of 1.0% 
for primary BCC, and 5.6% for recurrent BCC.138,146 In these studies,  the 
recurrence rate s for Mohs  were lower than those for standard excision 
(10.1% and 17.4% for primary and recurrent BCC, respectively), and lower 
than those for any other treatment modality included in the analysis ( C&E, 
cryotherapy, and RT).138,146 Studies on the long- term outcomes (~4 years) 
of Mohs have reported overall recurrence rates of 2.9 % to 3.8%,174,175 
specifically 0 % to 6.5% for primary and 4% to 20% for recurrent 
BCCs.98,176 -181  A prospective randomized trial comparing M ohs to standard excision 
reported fewer  10-year recurrences with Mohs  for both primary (2.5% vs . 
4.1%; P = .397) and recurrent BCC (2.4% vs . 12.1%; P = .015), although 
the difference was only statistically significant for recurrent tumors. Importantly, a large proportion of recurrences occurred more than 5  years 
after treatment.69,182,183 It has been demonstrated that H-zone location, 
recurrent tumor, aggressive subtype , PNI, and tumor size ≥11 mm are 
significantly associated with two or more Mohs stages .114,184 However, 
superficial BCC, despite being generally considered less aggressive, was  
shown in a B razilian study to be 9 .03 times more likely to require more 
than one Mohs stage, likely due to “skip areas” and clinically indistinct 
borders.185 
Excision with PDEMA with permanent section analysis or intraoperative 
frozen section analysis  is an acceptable alternative to M ohs provided it 
includes a complete assessment of all deep and peripheral margins.  A 5-
year recurrence rate of 0.58% has been reported with slow Mohs  using 
formalin -fixed paraffin- embedded sections and delayed closure in a UK -
based prospective study.186 The descriptive term PDEMA underscores the 
Panel’s belief that complete histologic assessment of the entire marginal 
surface is the key to optimal tumor removal . For more information, refer to 
the NCCN Guidelines for Squamous Cell Skin Cancer  SCC- G Principles of 
PDEMA Technique.  
Radiation Therapy  
Although surgery is the mainstay of local treatment for BCC, consideration of function and patient preference and other factors may lead to the choice 
of RT as primary therapy  for non-surgical candidates for  both low -risk and 
high- risk as well as patient with  advanced  BCC (locally advanced, nodal, 
and m etastatic BCC) .
187 The appropriateness of RT should be determined 
by a radiation oncologist  with radiation physics support to meet 
established quality assurance and dosimetric constraints . If resection is no PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-8 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
longer feasible to obtain negative margins, RT can be considered as an 
additional treatment  option after multidisciplinary consultation for low -risk 
and high- risk BCC with positive margins. Adjuvant RT is also a 
recommended  treatment option when resection is not feasible for high- risk 
BCC after negative margins in case of extensive perineural or large- nerve 
involvement.188 In these patients, local control has been reported to be 
50% to 90% with postoperative RT .187,189 There are conflicting data about 
the value of adjuvant RT following margin- negative surgical excision, 
particularly after Mohs.  For patients with locally advanced BCC (laBCC) or 
metastatic disease, RT is recommended as an option for primary 
treatment. RT is also a primary treatment option in instances where 
surgery is not feasible or as an adjuvant RT combination with surgery .  
Two meta- analyses reported 5- year recurrence rates of 8.7% and 9.8% 
after RT on primary and recurrent BCC, respectively.138,146 Retrospective 
analyses of BCC treated with RT have reported 5- year local control, cure, 
or complete response rates ranging from 93% to 96%,190- 193 and 5- year 
recurrence rates from 4%  to 16%.194- 196 Efficacy of RT was better for BCCs 
that were less advanced, primary (vs. recurrent) , or had smaller diameter 
or nodular histologic subtype.190,191,193- 195 A prospective study randomiz ing 
347 patients to receive either surgery (standard excision with free margins 
≥2 mm from visible borders) or RT as primary treatment of BC C reported 
higher  recurrence rates with RT than surgery (7.5% vs. 0.7%; P  = .003),197 
poorer cosmetic outcomes, and more postoperative complications.198  
A small number of prospective studies have  reported high rates of tumor 
control with specific radiation dose fractionation regimens for small BCCs.
197,199,200 A systematic review and meta -analysis also reported 
hypofractionated RT regimens associated with positive cosmetic outcomes.
201 The NCCN Panel recommends ranges of electron beam 
dose for regional disease and fractionation that can be used for definite 
RT and postoperative adjuvant RT. For general dosing recommendations, refer to the ASTRO Guideline on Definitive and P ostoperative Radiation 
Therapy for Basal and Squamous Cell Cancers of the Skin.202  
Isotope -based brachytherapy can be an effective treatment for certain 
sites of disease, particularly on the head and neck.203- 206 Image- guided 
radiation therapy (IGRT) is considered best practice when treating with 
intensity -modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), proton beam radiotherapy, 
or 3-D conformal radiation.207- 209 The use of IGRT for other types of 
radiotherapy to treat skin cancer is considered unnecessary.  
However, there is insufficient long- term efficacy and safety data to support 
the routine use of electronic surface brachytherapy.210,211 Electronic 
brachytherapy (EB) uses electrically generated X -rays, which are not 
regulated by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. One of the apparent advantages of EB devices is the decreased shielding requirements and 
the portability of the units, however, this may lead to EB use in settings 
unfamiliar with the hazards of therapeutic radiation delivery.
212 The 
American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM) task group 152 
has provided guidelines for proper and safe EB use including having an 
authorized medical physicist (AMP) physically present from the initiation 
through the duration of all treatments involving an EB unit.  The AMP is 
responsible for output calibration, quality assurance, training and treatment planning.
212 Furthermore, training and educational requirements 
for those administering EB vary considerably from state to state, and users should consult their local radiation safety committee to confirm appropriate 
compliance. The American Brachytherapy Society (ABS ) has published a 
consensus statement for electronic brachytherapy, noting a paucity of long- term clinical outcome data and lack of comparison to surgery or 
standard radiotherapy techniques.
213 Particularly concerning is the 
absence of standardized dosimetry (in comparison to high dose rate 
[HDR]  brachytherapy and external beam radiotherapy) to ensure adequate 
target coverage, skin surface dose, and plan quality assurance. The ABS, therefore, recommends that “EB treatment should be performed on clinical PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-9 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
registry or trial at this time”. The American Academy of Dermatology 
(AAD) has published a Position Statement : “The AAD believes additional 
research is needed on electronic surface brachytherapy particularly on long- term outcomes”. The AAD acknowledges concerns regarding 
aggressive marketing to dermatologists with a focus on revenue streams, 
potentially undermining quality of care and patient safety. The AAD also 
cautions dermatologists to be mindful of the Stark phys ician self -referral 
law. Recently, image guidance CPT codes have been used for the delivery 
of EB, despite a lack of evidence demonstrating a benefit in clinical 
outcomes with image guidance. We do not support the use of image 
guidance with EB current ly. In conclusion, EB should only be performed by 
Radiation Oncologists with Medical Physics support, on registry or clinical 
trial, with appropriate safeguards, and in adherence with all State and 
Federal regulations. Further research is needed regarding dose deposition 
and long- term clinical outcomes.  
Superficial Therapies  
In patients with superficial BCC, therapies such as topical imiquimod, topical 5 -fluorouracil  (5-FU), or photodynamic therapy  (PDT)  may be 
considered, although cure rates are approximately 10% lower than for 
surgical treatment modalities.
214- 216 Another option for patients with 
superficial BCC is cryotherapy.217 These options are also recommended 
for pa tients where surgery or RT is contraindicated or impractical  and are 
considered as useful in certain circumstances .  
Topical Therapies  
Imiquimod was found to be effective for treating  nodular and superficial  
BCC in randomized studies.218- 223 Two 5- year follow -up studies  reported 
overall treatment success rates of 80.4% and 77.9%, respectively , in 
patients with superficial BCC treated with imiquimod .222,224 Recurrence 
seems to be associated with tumor thickness.225 A phase III randomized 
trial in patients with superficial or nodular BCC showed that imiquimod provided an 82.5 % clinical success rate .226,227 For all of these studies, 
tumors in the H -zone were excluded. Although the clinical success rate 
was significantly higher with surgical excision using a 4 -mm margin 
(97.7%; P < .001), cosmetic outcomes by dermatologi c assessment were 
significantly better with imiquimod (excellent/good at 3- year follow -up: 61% 
vs. 36%; P < .001). Another topical cream with efficacy against BCC is  5-
FU,228,229 which has been shown in a large randomized trial to have a 5 -
year tumor -free survival probability of 70.0% .215,230,231 Other studies have 
reported cure rates of up to 90% with this treatment.232- 234 
Photodynamic Therapy  
PDT with p hotosensitizing agents including 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA)  
and porfimer sodium  is another option for superficial BCC .235- 237 Multiple 
randomized trials and a meta -analys is have shown that rates of excellent 
or good cosmetic outcomes were higher with PDT versus surgery, 
although surgery was superior to PDT in terms of disease control .152,238 -245 
Data from  clinical trials reported cure rates from 60% to 100% by PDT for 
patients with BCC.241,246- 251 Most of these  studies have focused on the 
superficial and nodular histologic subtypes, and several have found higher 
cure rates for superficial versus nodular subtypes  in both low - and high-
risk locations .241,246,251 Ulceration and thickness are associated with lower 
response to therapy,251 and within the nodular subtype, cure rates are 
better with thinner lesions.240 Clinical studies have demonstrated PDT 
activity against “difficult -to-treat” lesions, with a 24-month complete 
response rate of 78%.246,252 Currently, PDT is being used at some NCCN 
Member Institutions for premalignant or superficial low -risk lesions on any 
location on the body, although response rates may be higher on the face 
and scalp.253,254  
Cryo therapy  
Cryo therapy  has been used for many years as a fast and cost -effective 
means for removal of BCCs .217 Systematic reviews of historical data in 
primary BCCs have reported recurrence rates for cryotherapy ranging PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-10 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
from 0 % to 13%, and mean recurrence rates from pooled analyses 
ranging between 3% and 4%.138,140,255,256 In prospective trials, cry otherapy  
has been shown to result in  recurrence rates ranging from 5% to 
39%.199,257- 259 Current guidelines for low -risk BCC,  which include 
superficial BCC,  recommend several treatment options such as 
cryosurgery with or without prior curettage or C&E .217 A key limitation of 
cryotherapy is poorer cosmetic outcomes compared with other treatment 
options, as demonstrated by prospective randomized trials.258- 260  
Comparisons of Superficial Therapies  
Several randomized studies and meta -analyses have compared superficial 
therapies for BCC (Table 1). In summary , these studies indicate that in 
patients with superficial BCC,  PDT has similar efficacy as cryotherapy but 
much better cosmetic outcomes . Whereas a meta- analysis of 23 
randomized and non -randomized trials found no significant difference in 
efficacy for PDT versus imiquimod,261 a randomized tr ial showed that 
treatment success was more likely with imiquimod.215,231 This study also 
demonstrate s superior imiquimod outcomes compared to 5 -FU cream. 
Exploratory subanalyses  found that treatment success rates were 
significantly higher with imiquimod for tumors that are large or truncal, 
while PDT provided significantly better outcomes in patients who are older  
with lesions on the lower extremities.262 Safety results showed that while  
PDT causes moderate to severe pain during treatment administration, 
imiquimod and 5 -FU are more likely to cause moderate to severe local 
swelling, erosion, crust formation, itching, and wound infections.230 Both 
cryotherapy  and PDT are associated with pain during and after treatment, 
and data from a randomized trial indicate a trend toward a higher likelihood of pain with PDT.
258 
Nicotinamide in Reducing BCC Development  
Data from phase II and phase III randomized trials indicated that treatment 
of actinic keratoses with nicotinamide reduced the occurrence of new 
BCCs, specifically by 20% at 12 -month follow -up.263,264 A systemic review and meta- analysis of randomized controlled trials determined that there 
was a significant association between nicotinamide and a reduction in 
BCCs and SCCs  with a noted increased risk for digestive adverse 
events.265 On the other hand, a phase III trial in recipients of organ  
transplant s found no significant difference in the prevalence of SCC, BCC, 
or actinic keratosis between the groups randomly assigned to nicotinamide 
or placebo.266 Other agents that might be effective for the prevention of 
BCC in individuals at high risk for developing NMSCs include celecoxib,267 
acitretin,268 capecitabine,269 and tazarotene.270 
Systemic Therapy  
For advanced  BCC, s ystemic therapy  is recommended as a treatment 
option for laBCC, metastatic (mBCC), and nodal BCC after 
multidisciplinary consultation. Other options include surgery, RT, and 
palliation and best supportive care for certain patients. The systemic 
therapy options for BCC include hedgehog pathway inhibitor (HHI) and 
immunotherapy. Vismodegib and cemiplimab are currently recommended 
options for all advanced BCC s while sonidegib is only recommended for 
nodal and laBCC.  
Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitors  
Vismodegib is an HHI approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) for the treatment of adults with laBCC or mBCC  that has recurred 
following surgery, or those who are not candidates for surgery or RT.271 
The 9-month follow -up data from the SHH4476g trial, a  centrally reported , 
multicenter , phase I , open- label  study  had an initial enrollment of 104 
patients (laBCC N = 71, mBCC N = 33) ; however, pathology results 
excluded eight laBCC patients from the efficacy analysis ( N = 63). This 
trial reported an objective response rate of 30% in the mBCC group and 
43% in the laBCC group , with a median duration of response (DOR)  of 7.6 
months and 9.5 -month median progression- free survival  (PFS) .272 A 39-
month  follow- up to these data from the ERIVANCE trial, a n investigator -PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-11 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
reported,  multicenter , phase II trial , conveyed  an objective response rate  
of 48.5%  in the mBCC group and 60.3% in the laBCC group, with a 
median DOR  of 14.8 months and 26.2 months for each group, 
respectively .272- 275 Results from these trials for vismodegib in BCC are 
summarized in Table 2. According to these data, nearly all patients treated 
with vismodegib experienced at least one treatment -emergent adverse 
event ( TEAE), but a significant proportion of these were low grade (grade 
≤2).272- 274 Serious adverse events (SAEs)  occurred in 25%  to 32% of 
patients in these studies. The most common adverse events ( AEs) 
included  muscle spasms, alopecia, taste loss, weight loss, decreased 
appetite, fatigue, nausea, and diarrhea.  
Vismodegib has also been tested as BCC treatment and prophylaxis in 
patients with nevoid BCC syndrome. A randomized phase II study in 
patients with nevoid BCC syndrome and at least 10 operable BCC lesions 
found that vismodegib significantly reduced incidence of new BCC lesions 
compared with placebo, and also significantly reduced the size of existing 
lesions and the number of surgeries needed to remove BCC lesions.276- 278 
Sonidegib is another HHI FDA-approved  agent for the treatment of 
patients with l aBCC that has recurred following surgery or RT, or who are 
not candidates for surgery or RT .271 Sonidegib is FDA approved for la BCC.  
The 42-month  follow- up data from the centrally  reported  randomized,  
multicenter , phase II BOLT trial reported similar objective response rates  
for the 200- mg and 800-mg doses tested among patients with laBCC  (56% 
and 46%, respectively) , while there was a 2 -fold difference for  patients 
with mBCC (8% and 17%, respectively) .279- 283 This trial also reported, for 
each dose and patient group, median DOR  and PFS results that are 
summarized in Table 2. The 30- month investigator -reviewed data for the 
BOLT trial analyzing only the 200- mg dose showed a higher objective 
response rate  of 71.2% for laBCC and 23.1% for mBCC ( Table 2).281,284 
As with vismodegib, nearly all patients experienced at least one AE, and 
the most common AEs were muscle spasms, dysgeusia, alopecia, nausea, weight decrease,  and fatigue. Elevated creatinine kinase was also 
frequently observed and  was one of the most common grade 3– 4 AEs, 
along with elevated lipase.   
A key limitation to HHI  therapies is that advanced BCC can develop 
resistance, which limits DOR. A small investigator -initiated trial in patients 
with vismodegib- resistant advanced BCC observed no responses during 
treatment with sonidegib for a median of 6 weeks (range , 3–58 weeks), 
and in 5 of 9 patients with disease progression .285  
Ongoing clinical research is exploring various dosing regimens of 
vismodegib and sonidegib in a variety of BCC treatment settings, including 
in the neoadjuvant setting, in patients with multiple BCCs  or with radiation-
induced multiple BCCs of the scalp , and as maintenance therapy after 
laBCC complete remission.286- 291 
Notably, in the neoadjuvant setting, while one trial reported negative 
results (unmet predefined complete histologic clearance rate ),287 results 
from two studies indicated vismodegib may reduce surgical defect area and allow for downstaging of the surgical procedure for laBCCs in 
functionally sensitive locations.
286,289 Vismodegib neoadjuvant efficacy and 
safety was evaluated in the multicenter, open -label, phase II VISMONEO 
study, 55 patients were enrolled and 80% (N = 44) presented with 
downstaging after a mean 6 -month treatment duration.289 This study 
reported an objective response rate of 71%, with 36% recurrence at the 3-year follow -up.
289 Additionally, a new surgical classification was presented 
in this publication according to morbidity where six predetermined stages 
(stage A –F) were used to determine the surgical procedure complexity  
with details for each area of the face .289 Some of these studies included 
small number s of patients, and thus their results need to be carefully 
interpreted.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-12 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
Other HHIs  are also being tested in patients with BCC to see if they can 
provide higher rates of response, more durable responses, responses in 
less advanced BCC , or responses in BCC resistant to vismodegib. Results 
from phase I –II trials with small BCC sample sizes (N < 40) have shown 
that itraconazole and saridegib can elicit responses in patients with BCC, 
although not in patients who previously received vismodegib.292,293 
Immunotherapy  
Cemiplimab -rwlc is an anti- programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) 
immunotherapy FDA -approved for patients with laBCC or mBCC 
previously  treated with an HHI or for whom an HHI is not appropriate.271 
Cemiplimab is a recommended treatment option for certain patients with advanced BCC including in the neoadjuvant setting for laBCC. A  centrally  
reported,  multicenter , phase II, open- label  trial test ed cemiplimab -rwlc (N  
= 84) for patient s with laBCC where local invasion precluding complete 
resection or in locations for which surgery may result in sever 
disfigurement or dysfunction and whose disease has progressed on or 
was intolerant to prior HHI therapy.294 This study reported a median follow -
up of 15 months , objective response rate  of 31% , and grade 3– 4 TEAEs in 
48% of patients , while  SAEs occurred in 35% of patients.294  
Due to the rarity of advanced BCC cases, the literature on chemotherapy 
for BCC is limited to case reports.295- 301 
Follow- up 
Follow -up for BCC should include a history and physical  examination , 
along with a complete  skin exam ination every 6  to 12 months for the first 5 
years, and then at least annually for life. Imaging may be considered if clinical exam ination is insufficient for following the disease. Follow -up with 
a dermatologist is strongly recommended if any of the following criteria are met: past or imminent solid organ, marrow, or hematopoietic cell 
transplant; one or more cutaneous melanomas in the past 5 years; or four 
or more NMSCs  within the past 5 years.  
Imaging modality and targeted area should be at the discretion of the 
treating team based on the suspected extent of disease ( ie, local, regional, 
metastatic). Histologic confirmation is sufficient to diagnose local 
recurrence, but imaging can be considered to assess extent of disease. As 
part of follow -up, the patients should be educated on sun protection and 
self-examination. For local recurrence, the primary treatment pathway for 
high- risk BCC should be followed. For locally advanced,  nodal 
metastases,  and distant metastases , the appropriate path should be 
followed as found within Advanced BCC  in the algorithm  with a 
consideration for multidisciplinary discussion and multimodality treatments . 
An estimated 30% to 50% of patients with BCC will develop another BCC 
within 5 years.
130,133,302 -305 This represents a 10 -fold increase in risk 
compared to the general population.303 Patients with a prior BCC are also 
at increased risk of developing SCC and cutaneous melanoma.130,305 A 
prospective population- based cohort study found that development of a 
second BCC is most likely during the short -term follow -up period after 
diagnosis of the first lesion.137 Therefore, close foll ow-up of patients with 
BCC in both the short - and long- term is critical.  
 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-13 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
 
Table 1. Studies Comparing Superficial Therapies in Patients with Superficial BCC  
Study  Histologic 
Subtype  Tumor Locations  Treatments (n)  Efficacy  Cosmetic Outcome  
Phase III randomized trial  
Wang 2001258 Superficial 
and nodular  Trunk, limb, head, neck  Cryosurgery (39)  
ALA -PDT (44)  1-year 
recurrence:  15%  
25%  } NS  Excellent:  8% 
50%  } P < .001  
Randomized trial  
Basset -Seguin 2008259 Superficial  Trunk, limb, head, neck, 
face  Cryotherapy (58)  
MAL -PDT (60)  5-year 
recurrence:  20%  
22%  } NS  Excellent:  16%  
60%  } P = .00078  
Meta -analysis  
Roozeboom 2012261 Superficial  Locations depend on 
individual studies  Imiquimod (1088)  
PDT (934)  1-year 
tumor -free 
survival:  87%  
84%  } NS  
NR 
Randomized, single -blind, 
non- inferiority  trial  
Jansen 2018215 Superficial  Trunk, limb, head, neck  MAL -PDT (202)  
Imiquimod cream (198)  
Fluorouracil cream (201)  Treatment 
successa: 
 63% 
81% 
70 } P < .001  
} P = .04 } NS Good/ 
excellent:  62%  
61%  
58%  All comparisons NS  
BCC, basal cell carcinoma; MAL, methyl aminolevulinate; NR, not reported; NS, no statistically significant difference; PDT, photodynamic therapy.  
aTreatment success was defined as the product of the percent age of patients with clearance at 3 months by the percentage with sustained clearance during the next 9 months.  
 
  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.   MS-14 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 
Table 2. Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitors in Advanced BCCa 
Study  Txb Patients, n  Objective 
Response Rated Duration  of 
Response, Medianc Progression -free 
Survival, Medianc  Overall Survival, 
Medianc  
Name and References  Design  laBCC  mBCC  laBCC  mBCC  laBCC  mBCC  laBCC  mBCC  laBCC  mBCC  
BOLT – 42-month follow -up 
NCT01327053279,280,282,283  Phase II  
RDB , CR Soni 200 mg  66 13 56%  8% 26.1  24.0  22.1  13.1  NR NR 
Soni 800 mg  128  23 46%  17%  23.3  NE 24.9  11.1  NR NR 
BOLT – 30-month follow -up 
NCT01327053281,284 Phase II  
RBD, IR  Soni 200  mg 66 13 71%  23.1 % 15.7  17.7 –
18.4  NR NR NR NR 
SHH4476g – 9-month follow -up 
NCT00833417272 Phase I  
OL, CR  Vismo  63 33 43%  30%  7.6 7.6 9.5 9.5 NR NR 
ERIVANCE – 39-month follow -up  
NCT00833417273-275 Phase II  
OL, IR  Vismo  63 33 60%  49%  26.2  14.8  12.9  9.3 NE 33.4  
BCC, basal cell carcinoma; CR, centrally reviewed; IR, investigator reviewed; laBCC, locally advanced BCC; mBCC, metastatic BCC; NE, not reached; NR, not reported ; OL, open -label; RDB, 
randomized double- blind; Soni, sonidegib; Tx, treatment; Vismo, vismodegib. 
aTrials included patients with advanced BCC that was inappropriate for surgery or RT.  
bInhibitors were taken orally once daily. Vismodegib dose was 150 mg.  
cTimes are reported in months.  
dResponse criteria varied between studies.  
 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-15 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 References  
1. Asgari MM, Moffet HH, Ray GT, Quesenberry CP. Trends in basal 
cell carcinoma incidence and identification of high- risk subgroups, 
1998- 2012. JAMA Dermatol 2015;151:976- 981. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26039887 . 
2. Siegel RL, Miller KD, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2016. CA Cancer J 
Clin 2016;66:7 -30. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26742998 . 
3. Rogers HW, Weinstock MA, Feldman SR, Coldiron BM. Incidence 
estimate of nonmelanoma skin cancer (keratinocyte carcinomas) in 
the u.S. Population, 2012. JAMA Dermatol 2015;151:1081 -1086. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25928283 . 
4. Abbas M, Kalia S. Trends in non- melanoma skin cancer (basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma) in canada: A descriptive analysis of available data. J Cutan Med Surg 2016;20:166- 175. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26458408 . 
5. Rudolph C, Schnoor M, Eisemann N, Katalinic A. Incidence trends 
of nonmelanoma skin cancer in Germany from 1998 to 2010. J Dtsch 
Dermatol Ges 2015;13:788- 797. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26213814 . 
6. Muzic JG, Schmitt AR, Wright AC, et al. Incidence and trends of 
basal cell carcinoma and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma: A 
population- based study in olmsted county, minnesota, 2000 to 2010. 
Mayo Clin Proc 2017;92:890- 898. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28522111 . 
7. Christenson LJ, Borrowman TA, Vachon CM, et al. Incidence of 
basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas in a population younger than 
40 years. JAMA 2005;294:681 -690. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16091570 . 
8. von Domarus H, Stevens PJ. Metastatic basal cell carcinoma. 
Report of five cases and review of 170 cases in the literature. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 1984;10:1043- 1060. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6736323.  
9. Nguyen- Nielsen M, Wang L, Pedersen L, et al. The incidence of 
metastatic basal cell carcinoma (mBCC) in Denmark, 1997 -2010. Eur 
J Dermatol 2015;25:463 -468. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26105129 . 10. Wadhera A, Fazio M, Bricca G, Stanton O. Metastatic basal cell 
carcinoma: a case report and literature review. How accurate is our 
incidence data? Dermatol Online J 2006;12:7. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16962022 . 
11. Kricker A, Armstrong BK, English DR, Heenan PJ. Does intermittent sun exposure cause basal cell carcinoma? a case -control 
study in Western Australia. Int J Cancer 1995;60:489- 494. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7829262.  
12. Kricker A, Armstrong BK, English DR, Heenan PJ. A dose -
response curve for sun exposure and basal cell carcinoma. Int J Cancer 1995;60:482 -488. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7829261.  
13. Zanetti R, Rosso S, Martinez C, et al. Comparison of risk patterns in carcinoma and melanoma of the skin in men: a multi -centre case -
case -control study. Br J Cancer 2006;94:743 -751. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16495934 . 
14. Gallagher RP, Hill GB, Bajdik CD, et al. Sunlight exposure, pigmentary factors, and risk of nonmelanocytic skin cancer. I. Basal 
cell carcinoma. Arch Dermatol 1995;131:157- 163. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7857111.  
15. Ramsay HM, Fryer AA, Hawley CM, et al. Factors associated with 
nonmelanoma skin cancer following renal transplantation in 
Queensland, Australia. J Am Acad Dermatol 2003;49:397 -406. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12963901 . 
16. Kaskel P, Lange U, Sander S, et al. Ultraviolet exposure and risk 
of melanoma and basal cell carcinoma in Ulm and Dresden, Germany. 
J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2015;29:134 -142. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24684198 . 
17. Khalesi M, Whiteman DC, Tran B, et al. A meta -analysis of 
pigmentary characteristics, sun sensitivity, freckling and melanocytic 
nevi and risk of basal cell carcinoma of the skin. Cancer Epidemiol 
2013;37:534 -543. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23849507 . 
18. Walther U, Kron M, Sander S, et al. Risk and protective factors for 
sporadic basal cell carcinoma: results of a two -centre case- control 
study in southern Germany. Clinical actinic elastosis may be a 
protective factor. Br J Dermatol 2004;151:170 -178. Av ailable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15270887 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-16 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 19. Box NF, Duffy DL, Irving RE, et al. Melanocortin -1 receptor 
genotype is a risk factor for basal and squamous cell carcinoma. J 
Invest Dermatol 2001;116:224 -229. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11179997 . 
20. Lock -Andersen J, Drzewiecki KT, Wulf HC. Eye and hair colour, 
skin type and constitutive skin pigmentation as risk factors for basal 
cell carcinoma and cutaneous malignant melanoma. A Danish case -
control study. Acta Derm Venereol 1999;79:74 -80. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10086866 . 
21. Chinem VP, Miot HA. Prevalence of actinic skin lesions in patients 
with basal cell carcinoma of the head: a case -control study. Rev Assoc 
Med Bras (1992) 2012;58:188 -196. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22569613 . 
22. Wu S, Han J, Li WQ, et al. Basal -cell carcinoma incidence and 
associated risk factors in U.S. women and men. Am J Epidemiol 2013;178:890 -897. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23828250 . 
23. Perkins JL, Liu Y, Mitby PA, et al. Nonmelanoma skin cancer in 
survivors of childhood and adolescent cancer: a report from the 
childhood cancer survivor study. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:3733- 3741. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15923570 . 
24. Karagas MR, Nelson HH, Zens MS, et al. Squamous cell and 
basal cell carcinoma of the skin in relation to radiation therapy and 
potential modification of risk by sun exposure. Epidemiology 
2007;18:776 -784. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17917604 . 
25. Watt TC, Inskip PD, Stratton K, et al. Radiation- related risk of 
basal cell carcinoma: a report from the Childhood Cancer Survivor 
Study. J Natl Cancer Inst 2012;104:1240- 1250. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22835387 . 
26. Schwartz JL, Kopecky KJ, Mathes RW, et al. Basal cell skin 
cancer after total -body irradiation and hematopoietic cell 
transplantation. Radiat Res 2009;171:155 -163. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19267540 . 
27. Karagas MR, McDonald JA, Greenberg ER, et al. Risk of basal cell 
and squamous cell skin cancers after ionizing radiation therapy. For 
The Skin Cancer Prevention Study Group. J Natl Cancer Inst 
1996;88:1848 -1853. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8961975.  28. PubMed Overview. Available at: 
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/ . 
29. Freedman -Cass DA, Fischer T, Alpert AB, et al. The value and 
process of inclusion: Using sensitive, respectful, and inclusive 
language and images in nccn content. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 
2023;21:434 -441. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37156485 . 
30. Lesiak A, Sobolewska- Sztychny D, Majak P, et al. Relation 
between sonic hedgehog pathway gene polymorphisms and basal cell 
carcinoma development in the Polish population. Arch Dermatol Res 
2016;308:39 -47. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26590974 . 
31. Reifenberger J, Wolter M, Weber RG, et al. Missense mutations in SMOH in sporadic basal cell carcinomas of the skin and primitive 
neuroectodermal tumors of the central nervous system. Cancer Res 
1998;58:1798 -1803. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9581815.  
32. Xie J, Murone M, Luoh SM, et al. Activating Smoothened 
mutations in sporadic basal -cell carcinoma. Nature 1998;391:90 -92. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9422511 . 
33. Gailani MR, Bale SJ, Leffell DJ, et al. Developmental defects in Gorlin syndrome related to a putative tumor suppressor gene on 
chromosome 9. Cell 1992;69:111 -117. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1348213.  
34. Soufir N, Gerard B, Portela M, et al. PTCH mutations and 
deletions in patients with typical nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome 
and in patients with a suspected genetic predisposition to basal cell 
carcinoma: a French study. Br J Cancer 2006;95:548 -553. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16909134.  
35. Ling G, Ahmadian A, Persson A, et al. PATCHED and p53 gene alterations in sporadic and hereditary basal cell cancer. Oncogene 
2001;20:7770 -7778. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11753655 . 
36. Heitzer E, Lassacher A, Quehenberger F, et al. UV fingerprints 
predominate in the PTCH mutation spectra of basal cell carcinomas 
independent of clinical phenotype. J Invest Dermatol 2007;127:2872 -
2881. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17597822 . 
37. Danaee H, Karagas MR, Kelsey KT, et al. Allelic loss at Drosophila 
patched gene is highly prevalent in Basal and squamous cell PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-17 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 carcinomas of the skin. J Invest Dermatol 2006;126:1152 -1158. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16484983 . 
38. Reifenberger J, Wolter M, Knobbe CB, et al. Somatic mutations in 
the PTCH, SMOH, SUFUH and TP53 genes in sporadic basal cell 
carcinomas. Br J Dermatol 2005;152:43 -51. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15656799 . 
39. Kim MY, Park HJ, Baek SC, et al. Mutations of the p53 and PTCH 
gene in basal cell carcinomas: UV mutation signature and strand bias. 
J Dermatol Sci 2002;29:1- 9. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12007715 . 
40. Gailani MR, Stahle -Backdahl M, Leffell DJ, et al. The role of the 
human homologue of Drosophila patched in sporadic basal cell carcinomas. Nat Genet 1996;14:78- 81. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8782823.  
41. Zhang H, Ping XL, Lee PK, et al. Role of PTCH and p53 genes in 
early -onset basal cell carcinoma. Am J Pathol 2001;158:381- 385. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11159175 . 
42. Ziegler A, Leffell DJ, Kunala S, et al. Mutation hotspots due to 
sunlight in the p53 gene of nonmelanoma skin cancers. Proc Natl 
Acad Sci U S A 1993;90:4216 -4220. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8483937.  
43. Oluwasanmi JO, Williams AO, Alli AF. Superficial cancer in 
Nigeria. Br J Cancer 1969;23:714- 728. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/5367332.  
44. Yakubu A, Mabogunje OA. Skin cancer in Zaria, Nigeria. Trop Doct 1995;25 Suppl 1:63- 67. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7879275.  
45. Kraemer KH, Lee MM, Scotto J. Xeroderma pigmentosum. 
Cutaneous, ocular, and neurologic abnormalities in 830 published 
cases. Arch Dermatol 1987;123:241- 250. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3545087.  
46. Bradford PT, Goldstein AM, Tamura D, et al. Cancer and 
neurologic degeneration in xeroderma pigmentosum: long term follow -
up characterises the role of DNA repair. J Med Genet 2011;48:168-176. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21097776.  
47. Kraemer KH, Lee MM, Andrews AD, Lambert WC. The role of 
sunlight and DNA repair in melanoma and nonmelanoma skin cancer. 
The xeroderma pigmentosum paradigm. Arch Dermatol 1994;130:1018 -1021. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8053698.  
48. Kraemer KH, Lee MM, Scotto J. DNA repair protects against 
cutaneous and internal neoplasia: evidence from xeroderma 
pigmentosum. Carcinogenesis 1984;5:511- 514. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6705149.  
49. Couve- Privat S, Le Bret M, Traiffort E, et al. Functional analysis of 
novel sonic hedgehog gene mutations identified in basal cell 
carcinomas from xeroderma pigmentosum patients. Cancer Res 
2004;64:3559 -3565. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15150112 . 
50. Couve- Privat S, Bouadjar B, Avril MF, et al. Significantly high 
levels of ultraviolet -specific mutations in the smoothened gene in basal 
cell carcinomas from DNA repair -deficient xeroderma pigmentosum 
patients. Cancer Res 2002;62:7186- 7189. Available a t: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12499255 . 
51. Miller KL, Karagas MR, Kraft P, et al. XPA, haplotypes, and risk of 
basal and squamous cell carcinoma. Carcinogenesis 2006;27:1670-
1675. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16513681 . 
52. Clements S, Khachemoune A. Upstaging of basal cell and 
squamous cell carcinomas during definitive surgery: a review of 
predictive preoperative clinical and histologic features. Arch Dermatol 
Res 2021;313:319 -325. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33108525 . 
53. Singh B, Dorelles A, Konnikov N, Nguyen BM. Detection of high -
risk histologic features and tumor upstaging of nonmelanoma skin 
cancers on debulk analysis: A quantitative systematic review. 
Dermatol Surg 2017;43:1003- 1011. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28654579 . 
54. Chen J, Ruczinski I, Jorgensen TJ, et al. Nonmelanoma skin cancer and risk for subsequent malignancy. J Natl Cancer Inst 
2008;100:1215 -1222. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18728282 . 
55. Morgan FC, Ruiz ES, Karia PS, et al. Brigham and Women's 
Hospital tumor classification system for basal cell carcinoma identifies 
patients with risk of metastasis and death. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2021;85:582 -587. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33497751 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-18 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 56. Gandhi MR, Panizza B, Kennedy D. Detecting and defining the 
anatomic extent of large nerve perineural spread of malignancy: 
comparing "targeted" MRI with the histologic findings following 
surgery. Head Neck 2011;33:469 -475. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20645285 . 
57. Williams LS, Mancuso AA, Mendenhall WM. Perineural spread of 
cutaneous squamous and basal cell carcinoma: CT and MR detection 
and its impact on patient management and prognosis. Int J Radiat 
Oncol Biol Phys 2001;49:1061 -1069. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11240248 . 
58. Boeta -Angeles L, Bennett RG. Features associated with 
recurrence (basal cell carcinoma). In: Miller SJ, Maloney ME, eds. 
Cutaneous Oncology Pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management. 
Malden, MA: Blackwell Science; 1998:646 -656. 
59. Silverman MK, Kopf AW, Bart RS, et al. Recurrence rates of treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 3: Surgical excision. J Dermatol 
Surg Oncol 1992;18:471 -476. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1592998.  
60. Silverman MK, Kopf AW, Grin CM, et al. Recurrence rates of 
treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 2: Curettage -electrodesiccation. J 
Dermatol Surg Oncol 1991;17:720- 726. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1820764.  
61. Dubin N, Kopf AW. Multivariate risk score for recurrence of 
cutaneous basal cell carcinomas. Arch Dermatol 1983;119:373 -377. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6847215 . 
62. Bogelund FS, Philipsen PA, Gniadecki R. Factors affecting the recurrence rate of basal cell carcinoma. Acta Derm Venereol 
2007;87:330 -334. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17598036 . 
63. Rigel DS, Robins P, Friedman RJ. Predicting recurrence of basal -
cell carcinomas treated by microscopically controlled excision: a 
recurrence index score. J Dermatol Surg Oncol 1981;7:807- 810. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7298981 . 
64. Spiller WF, Spiller RF. Treatment of basal cell epithelioma by 
curettage and electrodesiccation. J Am Acad Dermatol 1984;11:808 -
814. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6512037 . 
65. van Iersel CA, van de Velden HV, Kusters CD, et al. Prognostic 
factors for a subsequent basal cell carcinoma: implications for follow -up. Br J Dermatol 2005;153:1078 -1080. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16225637 . 
66. Petrovich Z, Kuisk H, Langholz B, et al. Treatment results and 
patterns of failure in 646 patients with carcinoma of the eyelids, pinna, 
and nose. Am J Surg 1987;154:447- 450. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3661851.  
67. Swanson NA. Mohs surgery. Technique, indications, applications, 
and the future. Arch Dermatol 1983;119:761- 773. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6351758.  
68. Yalcin O, Sezer E, Kabukcuoglu F, et al. Presence of ulceration, but not high risk zone location, correlates with unfavorable 
histopathological subtype in facial basal cell carcinoma. Int J Clin Exp 
Pathol 2015;8:15448 -15453. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26823913 . 
69. van Loo E, Mosterd K, Krekels GA, et al. Surgical excision versus Mohs' micrographic surgery for basal cell carcinoma of the face: A 
randomised clinical trial with 10 year follow -up. Eur J Cancer 
2014;50:3011 -3020. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25262378 . 
70. Venturi F, Erbacci V, Veronesi G, et al. Basosquamous carcinoma: 
Comprehensive epidemiological, clinical, dermoscopic, and confocal 
features from a single center institution. Skin Res Technol 
2024;30:e70012. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39137046 . 
71. Silverman MK, Kopf AW, Grin CM, et al. Recurrence rates of 
treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 1: Overview. J Dermatol Surg 
Oncol 1991;17:713 -718. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1890243.  
72. American Academy of Dermatology, American College of Mohs 
Surgery, American Society for Dermatologic Surgery Association, et 
al. AAD/ACMS/ASDSA/ASMS 2012 appropriate use criteria for Mohs 
micrographic surgery: a report of the American Academy of 
Dermat ology, American College of Mohs Surgery, American Society 
for Dermatologic Surgery Association, and the American Society for 
Mohs Surgery. Dermatol Surg 2012;38:1582- 1603. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22958088 . 
73. Dixon AY, Lee SH, McGregor DH. Histologic features predictive of 
basal cell carcinoma recurrence: results of a multivariate analysis. J PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-19 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 Cutan Pathol 1993;20:137- 142. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8320358.  
74. Jacobs GH, Rippey JJ, Altini M. Prediction of aggressive behavior 
in basal cell carcinoma. Cancer 1982;49:533 -537. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7059912.  
75. de Rosa G, Vetrani A, Zeppa P, et al. Comparative morphometric 
analysis of aggressive and ordinary basal cell carcinoma of the skin. 
Cancer 1990;65:544 -549. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2297645.  
76. Codazzi D, Van Der Velden J, Carminati M, et al. Positive 
compared with negative margins in a single- centre retrospective study 
on 3957 consecutive excisions of basal cell carcinomas. Associated risk factors and preferred surgical management. J Plast S urg Hand 
Surg 2014;48:38- 43. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23731130 . 
77. Krynitz B, Olsson H, Lundh Rozell B, et al. Risk of basal cell 
carcinoma in Swedish organ transplant recipients: a population- based 
study. Br J Dermatol 2016;174:95- 103. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26333521 . 
78. Mackintosh LJ, Geddes CC, Herd RM. Skin tumours in the West of 
Scotland renal transplant population. Br J Dermatol 2013;168:1047-
1053. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23137036 . 
79. Bernat Garcia J, Morales Suarez -Varela M, Vilata JJ, et al. Risk 
factors for non -melanoma skin cancer in kidney transplant patients in 
a Spanish population in the Mediterranean region. Acta Derm 
Venereol 2013;93:422 -427. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23303600 . 
80. Karczewski M, Stronka M, Karczewski J, Wiktorowicz K. Skin 
cancer following kidney transplantation: a single -center experience. 
Transplant Proc 2011;43:3760 -3761. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22172842 . 
81. Bordea C, Wojnarowska F, Millard PR, et al. Skin cancers in renal -
transplant recipients occur more frequently than previously recognized 
in a temperate climate. Transplantation 2004;77:574 -579. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15084938 . 
82. DePry JL, Vyas R, Lazarus HM, et al. Cutaneous malignant 
neoplasms in hematopoietic cell transplant recipients: A systematic 
review. JAMA Dermatol 2015;151:775 -782. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25902409 . 83. Stern RS, Liebman EJ, Vakeva L. Oral psoralen and ultraviolet -A 
light (PUVA) treatment of psoriasis and persistent risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer. PUVA Follow -up Study. J Natl Cancer Inst 
1998;90:1278 -1284. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9731734.  
84. Archier E, Devaux S, Castela E, et al. Carcinogenic risks of 
psoralen UV -A therapy and narrowband UV -B therapy in chronic 
plaque psoriasis: a systematic literature review. J Eur Acad Dermatol 
Venereol 2012;26 Suppl 3:22 -31. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22512677 . 
85. Park GH, Chang SE, Won CH, et al. Incidence of primary skin 
cancer after organ transplantation: An 18- year single- center 
experience in Korea. J Am Acad Dermatol 2014;70:465- 472. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24342756.  
86. Jensen AO, Svaerke C, Farkas D, et al. Skin cancer risk among 
solid organ recipients: a nationwide cohort study in Denmark. Acta 
Derm Venereol 2010;90:474- 479. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20814621 . 
87. Hartevelt MM, Bavinck JN, Kootte AM, et al. Incidence of skin 
cancer after renal transplantation in The Netherlands. Transplantation 
1990;49:506 -509. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2316011.  
88. Harwood CA, Mesher D, McGregor JM, et al. A surveillance model 
for skin cancer in organ transplant recipients: a 22- year prospective 
study in an ethnically diverse population. Am J Transplant 
2013;13:119 -129. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23072567 . 
89. Brewer JD, Colegio OR, Phillips PK, et al. Incidence of and risk 
factors for skin cancer after heart transplant. Arch Dermatol 
2009;145:1391 -1396. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20026847 . 
90. Rashtak S, Dierkhising RA, Kremers WK, et al. Incidence and risk 
factors for skin cancer following lung transplantation. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2015;72:92 -98. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25440431 . 
91. Fortina AB, Piaserico S, Caforio AL, et al. Immunosuppressive 
level and other risk factors for basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell 
carcinoma in heart transplant recipients. Arch Dermatol PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-20 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 2004;140:1079 -1085. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15381547 . 
92. Kanitakis J, Alhaj -Ibrahim L, Euvrard S, Claudy A. Basal cell 
carcinomas developing in solid organ transplant recipients: 
clinicopathologic study of 176 cases. Arch Dermatol 2003;139:1133 -
1137. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12975154 . 
93. Harwood CA, Proby CM, McGregor JM, et al. Clinicopathologic 
features of skin cancer in organ transplant recipients: a retrospective 
case -control series. J Am Acad Dermatol 2006;54:290- 300. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16443060.  
94. Lott DG, Manz R, Koch C, Lorenz RR. Aggressive behavior of 
nonmelanotic skin cancers in solid organ transplant recipients. 
Transplantation 2010;90:683 -687. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20808266 . 
95. Martin H, Strong E, Spiro RH. Radiation -induced skin cancer of the 
head and neck. Cancer 1970;25:61- 71. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4312028.  
96. Lichter MD, Karagas MR, Mott LA, et al. Therapeutic ionizing 
radiation and the incidence of basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell 
carcinoma. The New Hampshire Skin Cancer Study Group. Arch 
Dermatol 2000;136:1007- 1011. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10926736 . 
97. Dixon AY, Lee SH, McGregor DH. Factors predictive of recurrence 
of basal cell carcinoma. Am J Dermatopathol 1989;11:222- 232. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2729527 . 
98. Smeets NW, Kuijpers DI, Nelemans P, et al. Mohs' micrographic surgery for treatment of basal cell carcinoma of the face --results of a 
retrospective study and review of the literature. Br J Dermatol 2004;151:141 -147. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15270883 . 
99. Cigna E, Tarallo M, Maruccia M, et al. Basal cell carcinoma: 10 years of experience. J Skin Cancer 2011;2011:476362. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21151696 . 
100. Szewczyk MP, Pazdrowski J, Danczak -Pazdrowska A, et al. 
Analysis of selected recurrence risk factors after treatment of head and neck basal cell carcinoma. Postepy Dermatol Alergol 
2014;31:146 -151. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25097485 . 101. Bartos V, Pokorny D, Zacharova O, et al. Recurrent basal cell carcinoma: a clinicopathological study and evaluation of 
histomorphological findings in primary and recurrent lesions. Acta 
Dermatovenerol Alp Pannonica Adriat 2011;20:67- 75. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21993704 . 
102. Sartore L, Lancerotto L, Salmaso M, et al. Facial basal cell 
carcinoma: analysis of recurrence and follow -up strategies. Oncol Rep 
2011;26:1423 -1429. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21922143 . 
103. Sloane JP. The value of typing basal cell carcinomas in 
predicting recurrence after surgical excision. Br J Dermatol 
1977;96:127 -132. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/843446.  
104. Costantino D, Lowe L, Brown DL. Basosquamous carcinoma- an 
under -recognized, high -risk cutaneous neoplasm: case study and 
review of the literature. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg 2006;59:424-
428. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16756261.  
105. Martin RC, 2nd, Edwards MJ, Cawte TG, et al. Basosquamous carcinoma: analysis of prognostic factors influencing recurrence. 
Cancer 2000;88:1365 -1369. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10717618 . 
106. Garcia C, Poletti E, Crowson AN. Basosquamous carcinoma. J 
Am Acad Dermatol 2009;60:137 -143. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19103364 . 
107. Wermker K, Roknic N, Goessling K, et al. Basosquamous carcinoma of the head and neck: clinical and histologic characteristics 
and their impact on disease progression. Neoplasia 2015;17:301 -305. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25810014 . 
108. Hassanein AM, Proper SA, Depcik -Smith ND, Flowers FP. 
Peritumoral fibrosis in basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma 
mimicking perineural invasion: potential pitfall in Mohs micrographic 
surgery. Dermatol Surg 2005;31:1101 -1106. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16164857 . 
109. Lin C, Tripcony L, Keller J, et al. Perineural infiltration of 
cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma without 
clinical features. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;82:334 -340. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21093171 . 
110. Garcia -Serra A, Hinerman RW, Mendenhall WM, et al. 
Carcinoma of the skin with perineural invasion. Head Neck PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-21 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 2003;25:1027 -1033. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14648861 . 
111. Lin C, Tripcony L, Keller J, et al. Cutaneous carcinoma of the 
head and neck with clinical features of perineural infiltration treated 
with radiotherapy. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol) 2013;25:362- 367. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23489870 . 
112. Leibovitch I, Huilgol SC, Selva D, et al. Basal cell carcinoma 
treated with Mohs surgery in Australia III. Perineural invasion. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 2005;53:458- 463. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16112353 . 
113. Jackson JE, Dickie GJ, Wiltshire KL, et al. Radiotherapy for 
perineural invasion in cutaneous head and neck carcinomas: toward a 
risk-adapted treatment approach. Head Neck 2009;31:604- 610. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19132719 . 
114. Ratner D, Lowe L, Johnson TM, Fader DJ. Perineural spread of 
basal cell carcinomas treated with Mohs micrographic surgery. Cancer 
2000;88:1605 -1613. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10738219 . 
115. Brown CI, Perry AE. Incidence of perineural invasion in 
histologically aggressive types of basal cell carcinoma. Am J 
Dermatopathol 2000;22:123- 125. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10770431 . 
116. Galloway TJ, Morris CG, Mancuso AA, et al. Impact of 
radiographic findings on prognosis for skin carcinoma with clinical 
perineural invasion. Cancer 2005;103:1254 -1257. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15693020 . 
117. Balamucki CJ, DeJesus R, Galloway TJ, et al. Impact of 
radiographic findings on for prognosis skin cancer with perineural 
invasion. Am J Clin Oncol 2015;38:248- 251. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23648439 . 
118. Cernea CR, Ferraz AR, de Castro IV, et al. Perineural invasion in 
aggressive skin carcinomas of the head and neck. Potentially 
dangerous but frequently overlooked. ORL J Otorhinolaryngol Relat 
Spec 2009;71:21 -26. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18946230 . 
119. Leffell DJ, Headington JT, Wong DS, Swanson NA. Aggressive -
growth basal cell carcinoma in young adults. Arch Dermatol 
1991;127:1663 -1667. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1952969.  120. McCormack CJ, Kelly JW, Dorevitch AP. Differences in age and 
body site distribution of the histological subtypes of basal cell 
carcinoma. A possible indicator of differing causes. Arch Dermatol 
1997;133:593 -596. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9158412.  
121. Bastiaens MT, Hoefnagel JJ, Bruijn JA, et al. Differences in age, 
site distribution, and sex between nodular and superficial basal cell 
carcinoma indicate different types of tumors. J Invest Dermatol 
1998;110:880 -884. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9620293.  
122. Scrivener Y, Grosshans E, Cribier B. Variations of basal cell 
carcinomas according to gender, age, location and histopathological 
subtype. Br J Dermatol 2002;147:41 -47. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12100183 . 
123. Raasch BA, Buettner PG, Garbe C. Basal cell carcinoma: 
histological classification and body -site distribution. Br J Dermatol 
2006;155:401 -407. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16882181 . 
124. Dinehart SM, Dodge R, Stanley WE, et al. Basal cell carcinoma treated with Mohs surgery. A comparison of 54 younger patients with 
1050 older patients. J Dermatol Surg Oncol 1992;18:560 -566. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1624629 . 
125. Milroy CJ, Horlock N, Wilson GD, Sanders R. Aggressive basal 
cell carcinoma in young patients: fact or fiction? Br J Plast Surg 
2000;53:393 -396. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10876275 . 
126. Roudier -Pujol C, Auperin A, Nguyen T, et al. Basal cell 
carcinoma in young adults: not more aggressive than in older patients. 
Dermatology 1999;199:119- 123. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10559576 . 
127. Lear JT, Smith AG, Bowers B, et al. Truncal tumor site is 
associated with high risk of multiple basal cell carcinoma and is 
influenced by glutathione S -transferase, GSTT1, and cytochrome 
P450, CYP1A1 genotypes, and their interaction. J Invest Dermatol  
1997;108:519 -522. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9077484.  
128. Ramachandran S, Fryer AA, Lovatt T, et al. The rate of increase in the numbers of primary sporadic basal cell carcinomas during follow 
up is associated with age at first presentation. Carcinogenesis PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-22 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 2002;23:2051 -2054. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12507928 . 
129. Cheretis C, Angelidou E, Dietrich F, et al. Prognostic value of 
computer -assisted morphological and morphometrical analysis for 
detecting the recurrence tendency of basal cell carcinoma. Med Sci Monit 2008;14:MT13 -19. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18443558 . 
130. Karagas MR, Stukel TA, Greenberg ER, et al. Risk of subsequent basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin among 
patients with prior skin cancer. Skin Cancer Prevention Study Group. 
JAMA 1992;267:3305 -3310. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1597912.  
131. Lovatt TJ, Lear JT, Bastrilles J, et al. Associations between ultraviolet radiation, basal cell carcinoma site and histology, host 
characteristics, and rate of development of further tumors. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2005;52:468 -473. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15761425 . 
132. Richmond- Sinclair NM, Pandeya N, Williams GM, et al. Clinical 
signs of photodamage are associated with basal cell carcinoma 
multiplicity and site: a 16 -year longitudinal study. Int J Cancer 
2010;127:2622 -2629. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20196068 . 
133. Flohil SC, Koljenovic S, de Haas ER, et al. Cumulative risks and 
rates of subsequent basal cell carcinomas in the Netherlands. Br J 
Dermatol 2011;165:874 -881. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21711333 . 
134. Verkouteren JAC, Smedinga H, Steyerberg EW, et al. Predicting 
the Risk of a Second Basal Cell Carcinoma. J Invest Dermatol 
2015;135:2649 -2656. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26121210 . 
135. Milan T, Pukkala E, Verkasalo PK, et al. Subsequent primary 
cancers after basal -cell carcinoma: A nationwide study in Finland from 
1953 to 1995. Int J Cancer 2000;87:283- 288. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10861488 . 
136. McCusker M, Basset -Seguin N, Dummer R, et al. Metastatic 
basal cell carcinoma: prognosis dependent on anatomic site and spread of disease. Eur J Cancer 2014;50:774 -783. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24412051 . 137. Kiiski V, de Vries E, Flohil SC, et al. Risk factors for single and multiple basal cell carcinomas. Arch Dermatol 2010;146:848- 855. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20713815 . 
138. Rowe DE, Carroll RJ, Day CL, Jr. Long -term recurrence rates in 
previously untreated (primary) basal cell carcinoma: implications for 
patient follow -up. J Dermatol Surg Oncol 1989;15:315- 328. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2646336.  
139. Barlow JO, Zalla MJ, Kyle A, et al. Treatment of basal cell 
carcinoma with curettage alone. J Am Acad Dermatol 2006;54:1039-
1045. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16713459 . 
140. Thissen MR, Neumann MH, Schouten LJ. A systematic review of 
treatment modalities for primary basal cell carcinomas. Arch Dermatol 
1999;135:1177 -1183. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10522664 . 
141. Chren MM, Torres JS, Stuart SE, et al. Recurrence after 
treatment of nonmelanoma skin cancer: a prospective cohort study. 
Arch Dermatol 2011;147:540 -546. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21576572 . 
142. Julian C, Bowers PW, Pritchard C. A comparative study of the 
effects of disposable and Volkmann spoon curettes in the treatment of 
basal cell carcinoma. Br J Dermatol 2009;161:1407- 1409. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19681879 . 
143. Blixt E, Nelsen D, Stratman E. Recurrence rates of aggressive 
histologic types of basal cell carcinoma after treatment with 
electrodesiccation and curettage alone. Dermatol Surg 2013;39:719 -
725. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23379543.  
144. Rodriguez -Vigil T, Vazquez -Lopez F, Perez -Oliva N. Recurrence 
rates of primary basal cell carcinoma in facial risk areas treated with 
curettage and electrodesiccation. J Am Acad Dermatol 2007;56:91- 95. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17190625 . 
145. Kopf AW, Bart RS, Schrager D, et al. Curettage-
electrodesiccation treatment of basal cell carcinomas. Arch Dermatol 
1977;113:439 -443. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/848972.  
146. Rowe DE, Carroll RJ, Day CL, Jr. Mohs surgery is the treatment of choice for recurrent (previously treated) basal cell carcinoma. J 
Dermatol Surg Oncol 1989;15:424- 431. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2925988.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-23 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 147. Emmett AJ, Broadbent GD. Shave excision of superficial solar 
skin lesions. Plast Reconstr Surg 1987;80:47 -54. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3602160.  
148. Dando EE, Abban C, Shehu Wingrove A, et al. Deep shave removal of suspected basal cell carcinoma: A prospective study. 
Dermatol Surg 2023;49:130- 134. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36728062 . 
149. Abramson AK, Krasny MJ, Goldman GD. Tangential shave 
removal of basal cell carcinoma. Dermatol Surg 2013;39:387 -392. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23279298 . 
150. Wu X, Elkin EB, Jason Chen CS, Marghoob A. Traditional versus 
streamlined management of basal cell carcinoma (BCC): A cost 
analysis. J Am Acad Dermatol 2015;73:791 -798. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26341142 . 
151. Kuijpers DI, Thissen MR, Berretty PJ, et al. Surgical excision 
versus curettage plus cryosurgery in the treatment of basal cell 
carcinoma. Dermatol Surg 2007;33:579- 587. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17451581 . 
152. Rhodes LE, de Rie MA, Leifsdottir R, et al. Five- year follow -up of 
a randomized, prospective trial of topical methyl aminolevulinate 
photodynamic therapy vs surgery for nodular basal cell carcinoma. 
Arch Dermatol 2007;143:1131 -1136. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17875873 . 
153. Wetzig T, Woitek M, Eichhorn K, et al. Surgical excision of basal 
cell carcinoma with complete margin control: outcome at 5 -year follow -
up. Dermatology 2010;220:363- 369. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20484877 . 
154. Schell AE, Russell MA, Park SS. Suggested excisional margins 
for cutaneous malignant lesions based on Mohs micrographic surgery. 
JAMA Facial Plast Surg 2013;15:337 -343. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23744451 . 
155. Quazi SJ, Aslam N, Saleem H, et al. Surgical margin of excision 
in basal cell carcinoma: A systematic review of literature. Cureus 
2020;12:e9211. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32821563 . 
156. Bisson MA, Dunkin CS, Suvarna SK, Griffiths RW. Do plastic 
surgeons resect basal cell carcinomas too widely? A prospective study 
comparing surgical and histological margins. Br J Plast Surg 2002;55:293 -297. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12160534 . 
157. Gulleth Y, Goldberg N, Silverman RP, Gastman BR. What is the 
best surgical margin for a Basal cell carcinoma: a meta- analysis of the 
literature. Plast Reconstr Surg 2010;126:1222 -1231. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20885244 . 
158. Thomas DJ, King AR, Peat BG. Excision margins for nonmelanotic skin cancer. Plast Reconstr Surg 2003;112:57- 63. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12832877 . 
159. Fraga SD, Besaw RJ, Murad F, et al. Complete margin assessment versus sectional assessment in surgically excised high -
risk keratinocyte carcinomas: A systematic review and meta- analysis. 
Dermatol Surg 2022;48:704- 710. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35778249 . 
160. Su SY, Giorlando F, Ek EW, Dieu T. Incomplete excision of basal cell carcinoma: a prospective trial. Plast Reconstr Surg 
2007;120:1240 -1248. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17898596 . 
161. Farhi D, Dupin N, Palangie A, et al. Incomplete excision of basal 
cell carcinoma: rate and associated factors among 362 consecutive 
cases. Dermatol Surg 2007;33:1207 -1214. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17903153 . 
162. Kappelin J, Nielsen K, Nilsson F, et al. Surgical treatment of 
basal cell carcinoma: a case series on factors influencing the risk of an 
incomplete primary excision. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 
2020;34:2518 -2525. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32124503 . 
163. Dieu T, Macleod AM. Incomplete excision of basal cell 
carcinomas: a retrospective audit. ANZ J Surg 2002;72:219- 221. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12071456 . 
164. Ramdas K, van Lee C, Beck S, et al. Differences in rate of complete excision of basal cell carcinoma by dermatologists, plastic 
surgeons and general practitioners: A large cross -sectional study. 
Dermatology 2018;234:86- 91. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30086541 . 
165. Sexton M, Jones DB, Maloney ME. Histologic pattern analysis of 
basal cell carcinoma. Study of a series of 1039 consecutive 
neoplasms. J Am Acad Dermatol 1990;23:1118 -1126. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2273112.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-24 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 166. Sherry KR, Reid LA, Wilmshurst AD. A five year review of basal 
cell carcinoma excisions. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg 
2010;63:1485 -1489. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19837017 . 
167. Griffiths RW, Suvarna SK, Stone J. Basal cell carcinoma 
histological clearance margins: an analysis of 1539 conventionally 
excised tumours. Wider still and deeper? J Plast Reconstr Aesthet 
Surg 2007;60:41- 47. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17126265 . 
168. Masud D, Moustaki M, Staruch R, Dheansa B. Basal cell carcinomata: Risk factors for incomplete excision and results of re -
excision. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg 2016;69:652- 656. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26948998.  
169. Malik V, Goh KS, Leong S, et al. Risk and outcome analysis of 
1832 consecutively excised basal cell carcinomas in a tertiary referral 
plastic surgery unit. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg 2010;63:2057-
2063. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20226750 . 
170. Wolf DJ, Zitelli JA. Surgical margins for basal cell carcinoma. Arch Dermatol 1987;123:340 -344. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3813602.  
171. Muller FM, Dawe RS, Moseley H, Fleming CJ. Randomized comparison of Mohs micrographic surgery and surgical excision for 
small nodular basal cell carcinoma: tissue- sparing outcome. Dermatol 
Surg 2009;35:1349 -1354. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19500127 . 
172. Gniadecki R, Glud M, Mortensen K, et al. Favourable results of 
Mohs micrographic surgery for basal cell carcinoma. Dan Med J 
2015;62:A5171. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26621396 . 
173. Curtis KK, Fakult NJ, Strunck JL, et al. Establishing Consensus 
for Mohs Micrographic Surgical Techniques in the Treatment of 
Melanoma in Situ for Future Clinical Trials: A Modified Delphi Study. J 
Natl Compr Canc Netw 2024:1- 6. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39079545 . 
174. Weesie F, Naus NC, Vasilic D, et al. Recurrence of periocular 
basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma after Mohs 
micrographic surgery: a retrospective cohort study. Br J Dermatol 
2019;180:1176 -1182. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30536656 . 175. Drucker AM, Adam GP, Rofeberg V, et al. Treatments of primary 
basal cell carcinoma of the skin: A systematic review and network 
meta -analysis. Ann Intern Med 2018;169:456 -466. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30242379 . 
176. Wennberg AM, Larko O, Stenquist B. Five -year results of Mohs' 
micrographic surgery for aggressive facial basal cell carcinoma in 
Sweden. Acta Derm Venereol 1999;79:370- 372. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10494714 . 
177. Veronese F, Farinelli P, Zavattaro E, et al. Basal cell carcinoma of the head region: therapeutical results of 350 lesions treated with 
Mohs micrographic surgery. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 
2012;26:838 -843. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21707774 . 
178. Litwin AS, Rytina E, Ha T, et al. Management of periocular basal 
cell carcinoma by Mohs micrographic surgery. J Dermatolog Treat 
2013;24:232 -234. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22551161 . 
179. Sin CW, Barua A, Cook A. Recurrence rates of periocular basal 
cell carcinoma following Mohs micrographic surgery: a retrospective 
study. Int J Dermatol 2016;55:1044- 1047. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27152747 . 
180. Leibovitch I, Huilgol SC, Selva D, et al. Basal cell carcinoma 
treated with Mohs surgery in Australia II. Outcome at 5 -year follow -up. 
J Am Acad Dermatol 2005;53:452- 457. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16112352 . 
181. Malhotra R, Huilgol SC, Huynh NT, Selva D. The Australian Mohs 
database, part II: periocular basal cell carcinoma outcome at 5 -year 
follow- up. Ophthalmology 2004;111:631 -636. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15051193 . 
182. Mosterd K, Krekels GA, Nieman FH, et al. Surgical excision 
versus Mohs' micrographic surgery for primary and recurrent basal -cell 
carcinoma of the face: a prospective randomised controlled trial with 5-years' follow -up. Lancet Oncol 2008;9:1149- 1156. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19010733 . 
183. Smeets NW, Krekels GA, Ostertag JU, et al. Surgical excision vs 
Mohs' micrographic surgery for basal -cell carcinoma of the face: 
randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2004;364:1766- 1772. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15541449 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-25 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 184. Flohil SC, van Dorst AM, Nijsten T, et al. Mohs micrographic 
surgery for basal cell carcinomas: appropriateness of 'Rotterdam' 
criteria and predictive factors for three or more stages. J Eur Acad 
Dermatol Venereol 2013;27:1228 -1235. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23039378 . 
185. Takata Pontes L, Fantelli Stelini R, Cintra ML, et al. The 
importance of superficial basal cell carcinoma in a retrospective study 
of 139 patients who underwent Mohs micrographic surgery in a 
Brazilian university hospital. Clinics (Sao Paulo) 2015;70: 721-725. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26602517 . 
186. Morris DS, Elzaridi E, Clarke L, et al. Periocular basal cell 
carcinoma: 5 -year outcome following Slow Mohs surgery with formalin-
fixed paraffin- embedded sections and delayed closure. Br J 
Ophthalmol 2009;93:474 -476. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19060015 . 
187. Mendenhall WM, Amdur RJ, Hinerman RW, et al. Radiotherapy for cutaneous squamous and basal cell carcinomas of the head and 
neck. Laryngoscope 2009;119:1994- 1999. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19688856 . 
188. Mendenhall WM, Ferlito A, Takes RP, et al. Cutaneous head and 
neck basal and squamous cell carcinomas with perineural invasion. 
Oral Oncol 2012;48:918 -922. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22425152 . 
189. Han A, Ratner D. What is the role of adjuvant radiotherapy in the 
treatment of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma with perineural 
invasion? Cancer 2007;109:1053 -1059. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17279578 . 
190. Wilder RB, Kittelson JM, Shimm DS. Basal cell carcinoma treated 
with radiation therapy. Cancer 1991;68:2134 -2137. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1913451.  
191. Wilder RB, Shimm DS, Kittelson JM, et al. Recurrent basal cell carcinoma treated with radiation therapy. Arch Dermatol 
1991;127:1668 -1672. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1952970.  
192. Childers BJ, Goldwyn RM, Ramos D, et al. Long- term results of 
irradiation for basal cell carcinoma of the skin of the nose. Plast 
Reconstr Surg 1994;93:1169- 1173. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8171136.  193. Hernandez -Machin B, Borrego L, Gil -Garcia M, Hernandez BH. 
Office -based radiation therapy for cutaneous carcinoma: evaluation of 
710 treatments. Int J Dermatol 2007;46:453 -459. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17472670 . 
194. Silverman MK, Kopf AW, Gladstein AH, et al. Recurrence rates of 
treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 4: X -ray therapy. J Dermatol Surg 
Oncol 1992;18:549 -554. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1624628.  
195. Zagrodnik B, Kempf W, Seifert B, et al. Superficial radiotherapy 
for patients with basal cell carcinoma: recurrence rates, histologic 
subtypes, and expression of p53 and Bcl -2. Cancer 2003;98:2708 -
2714. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14669293 . 
196. Cognetta AB, Howard BM, Heaton HP, et al. Superficial x -ray in 
the treatment of basal and squamous cell carcinomas: a viable option 
in select patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 2012;67:1235- 1241. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22818756.  
197. Avril MF, Auperin A, Margulis A, et al. Basal cell carcinoma of the 
face: surgery or radiotherapy? Results of a randomized study. Br J 
Cancer 1997;76:100 -106. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9218740.  
198. Petit JY, Avril MF, Margulis A, et al. Evaluation of cosmetic 
results of a randomized trial comparing surgery and radiotherapy in 
the treatment of basal cell carcinoma of the face. Plast Reconstr Surg 
2000;105:2544 -2551. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10845311 . 
199. Hall VL, Leppard BJ, McGill J, et al. Treatment of basal -cell 
carcinoma: comparison of radiotherapy and cryotherapy. Clin Radiol 
1986;37:33- 34. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3514075.  
200. Garcia -Martin E, Gil -Arribas LM, Idoipe M, et al. Comparison of 
imiquimod 5% cream versus radiotherapy as treatment for eyelid basal 
cell carcinoma. Br J Ophthalmol 2011;95:1393- 1396. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21242584 . 
201. Zaorsky NG, Lee CT, Zhang E, et al. Hypofractionated radiation 
therapy for basal and squamous cell skin cancer: A meta -analysis. 
Radiother Oncol 2017;125:13 -20. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28843727 . 
202. Likhacheva AO, Devlin PM, Shirvani SM, et al. Skin surface 
brachytherapy: A survey of contemporary practice patterns. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-26 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 Brachytherapy 2017;16:223- 229. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27908679 . 
203. Ashby MA, Pacella JA, de Groot R, Ainslie J. Use of a radon 
mould technique for skin cancer: results from the Peter MacCallum 
Cancer Institute (1975- 1984). Br J Radiol 1989;62:608 -612. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2758248.  
204. Cipriani C, Desantis M, Dahlhoff G, et al. Personalized irradiation 
therapy for NMSC by rhenium -188 skin cancer therapy: a long -term 
retrospective study. J Dermatolog Treat 2022;33:969 -975. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32648530.  
205. Sedda AF, Rossi G, Cipriani C, et al. Dermatological high -dose-
rate brachytherapy for the treatment of basal and squamous cell 
carcinoma. Clin Exp Dermatol 2008;33:745 -749. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18681873 . 
206. Guibert M, David I, Vergez S, et al. Brachytherapy in lip 
carcinoma: long -term results. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
2011;81:e839 -843. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21163589 . 
207. Whalley D, Caine H, McCloud P, et al. Promising results with image guided intensity modulated radiotherapy for muscle invasive 
bladder cancer. Radiat Oncol 2015;10:205. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26407726 . 
208. Xing L, Thorndyke B, Schreibmann E, et al. Overview of image -
guided radiation therapy. Med Dosim 2006;31:91 -112. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16690451 . 
209. Dang A, Kupelian PA, Cao M, et al. Image- guided radiotherapy 
for prostate cancer. Transl Androl Urol 2018;7:308 -320. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30050792 . 
210. Ballester -Sanchez R, Pons -Llanas O, Candela- Juan C, et al. Two 
years results of electronic brachytherapy for basal cell carcinoma. J 
Contemp Brachytherapy 2017;9:251- 255. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28725249 . 
211. Bhatnagar A, Loper A. The initial experience of electronic 
brachytherapy for the treatment of non- melanoma skin cancer. Radiat 
Oncol 2010;5:87. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20875139 . 
212. Eaton DJ. Electronic brachytherapy --current status and future 
directions. Br J Radiol 2015;88:20150002. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25748070 . 213. Tom MC, Hepel JT, Patel R, et al. The american brachytherapy society consensus statement for electronic brachytherapy. 
Brachytherapy 2019;18:292- 298. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30497939 . 
214. Braathen LR, Szeimies RM, Basset -Seguin N, et al. Guidelines 
on the use of photodynamic therapy for nonmelanoma skin cancer: an 
international consensus. International Society for Photodynamic 
Therapy in Dermatology, 2005. J Am Acad Dermatol 2007;56:12 5-143. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17190630 . 
215. Jansen MHE, Mosterd K, Arits A, et al. Five -year results of a 
randomized controlled trial comparing effectiveness of photodynamic 
therapy, topical imiquimod, and topical 5 -fluorouracil in patients with 
superficial basal cell carcinoma. J Invest Dermat ol 2018;138:527 -533. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29045820 . 
216. Drew BA, Karia PS, Mora AN, et al. Treatment patterns, 
outcomes, and patient satisfaction of primary epidermally limited 
nonmelanoma skin cancer. Dermatol Surg 2017;43:1423- 1430. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28661992 . 
217. Backman EJ, Polesie S, Berglund S, et al. Curettage vs. 
cryosurgery for superficial basal cell carcinoma: a prospective, 
randomised and controlled trial. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 
2022;36:1758 -1765. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35543079 . 
218. Peris K, Campione E, Micantonio T, et al. Imiquimod treatment of 
superficial and nodular basal cell carcinoma: 12 -week open -label trial. 
Dermatol Surg 2005;31:318- 323. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15841634 . 
219. Eigentler TK, Kamin A, Weide BM, et al. A phase III, randomized, 
open label study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of imiquimod 5% 
cream applied thrice weekly for 8 and 12 weeks in the treatment of 
low-risk nodular basal cell carcinoma. J Am Acad D ermatol 
2007;57:616 -621. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17610993 . 
220. Geisse J, Caro I, Lindholm J, et al. Imiquimod 5% cream for the treatment of superficial basal cell carcinoma: results from two phase 
III, randomized, vehicle -controlled studies. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2004;50:722 -733. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15097956 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-27 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 221. Schulze HJ, Cribier B, Requena L, et al. Imiquimod 5% cream for 
the treatment of superficial basal cell carcinoma: results from a 
randomized vehicle -controlled phase III study in Europe. Br J 
Dermatol 2005;152:939 -947. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15888150 . 
222. Quirk C, Gebauer K, De'Ambrosis B, et al. Sustained clearance 
of superficial basal cell carcinomas treated with imiquimod cream 5%: 
results of a prospective 5- year study. Cutis 2010;85:318 -324. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20666194 . 
223. Marks R, Gebauer K, Shumack S, et al. Imiquimod 5% cream in 
the treatment of superficial basal cell carcinoma: results of a 
multicenter 6 -week dose -response trial. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2001;44:807 -813. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11312429 . 
224. Gollnick H, Barona CG, Frank RG, et al. Recurrence rate of 
superficial basal cell carcinoma following treatment with imiquimod 5% 
cream: conclusion of a 5- year long -term follow -up study in Europe. Eur 
J Dermatol 2008;18:677 -682. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18955210 . 
225. McKay KM, Sambrano BL, Fox PS, et al. Thickness of superficial 
basal cell carcinoma (sBCC) predicts imiquimod efficacy: a proposal 
for a thickness -based definition of sBCC. Br J Dermatol 2013;169:549 -
554. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23627639.  
226. Bath -Hextall F, Ozolins M, Armstrong SJ, et al. Surgical excision 
versus imiquimod 5% cream for nodular and superficial basal -cell 
carcinoma (SINS): a multicentre, non- inferiority, randomised controlled 
trial. Lancet Oncol 2014;15:96 -105. Available at : 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24332516 . 
227. Williams HC, Bath -Hextall F, Ozolins M, et al. Surgery versus 5% 
imiquimod for nodular and superficial basal cell carcinoma: 5 -year 
results of the sins randomized controlled trial. J Invest Dermatol 
2017;137:614 -619. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27932240 . 
228. Metterle L, Nelson C, Patel N. Intralesional 5- fluorouracil (FU) as 
a treatment for nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC): A review. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 2016;74:552- 557. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26577512 . 
229. Neale H, Michelon M, Jacob S, et al. Topical 5% 5 -fluorouracil 
versus procedural modalities for squamous cell carcinoma in situ and superficial basal cell carcinoma: A retrospective cohort analysis. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 2022;87:423- 425. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34478783 . 
230. Arits AH, Mosterd K, Essers BA, et al. Photodynamic therapy versus topical imiquimod versus topical fluorouracil for treatment of 
superficial basal -cell carcinoma: a single blind, non- inferiority, 
randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 2013;14:647 -654. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23683751.  
231. Roozeboom MH, Arits A, Mosterd K, et al. Three -year follow -up 
results of photodynamic therapy vs. Imiquimod vs. Fluorouracil for 
treatment of superficial basal cell carcinoma: A single- blind, 
noninferiority, randomized controlled trial. J Invest Derma tol 
2016;136:1568 -1574. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27113429 . 
232. Gross K, Kircik L, Kricorian G. 5% 5 -Fluorouracil cream for the 
treatment of small superficial Basal cell carcinoma: efficacy, 
tolerability, cosmetic outcome, and patient satisfaction. Dermatol Surg 
2007;33:433 -439; discussion 440. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17430377 . 
233. Reymann F. Treatment of basal cell carcinoma of the skin with 5 -
fluorouracil ointment. A 10- year follow -up study. Dermatologica 
1979;158:368 -372. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/437226.  
234. Love WE, Bernhard JD, Bordeaux JS. Topical imiquimod or fluorouracil therapy for basal and squamous cell carcinoma: a 
systematic review. Arch Dermatol 2009;145:1431- 1438. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20026854 . 
235. Kuijpers DI, Thissen MR, Thissen CA, Neumann MH. Similar 
effectiveness of methyl aminolevulinate and 5- aminolevulinate in 
topical photodynamic therapy for nodular basal cell carcinoma. J 
Drugs Dermatol 2006;5:642- 645. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16865869 . 
236. Savoia P, Deboli T, Previgliano A, Broganelli P. Usefulness of 
photodynamic therapy as a possible therapeutic alternative in the 
treatment of basal cell carcinoma. Int J Mol Sci 2015;16:23300 -23317. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26426005 . 
237. Oseroff AR, Blumenson LR, Wilson BD, et al. A dose ranging study of photodynamic therapy with porfimer sodium (Photofrin) for PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-28 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 treatment of basal cell carcinoma. Lasers Surg Med 2006;38:417 -426. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16788928 . 
238. Berroeta L, Clark C, Dawe RS, et al. A randomized study of 
minimal curettage followed by topical photodynamic therapy compared 
with surgical excision for low- risk nodular basal cell carcinoma. Br J 
Dermatol 2007;157:401 -403. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17573890 . 
239. Szeimies RM, Ibbotson S, Murrell DF, et al. A clinical study 
comparing methyl aminolevulinate photodynamic therapy and surgery 
in small superficial basal cell carcinoma (8- 20 mm), with a 12- month 
follow- up. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2008;22:1302- 1311. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18624836 . 
240. Roozeboom MH, Aardoom MA, Nelemans PJ, et al. Fractionated 
5-aminolevulinic acid photodynamic therapy after partial debulking 
versus surgical excision for nodular basal cell carcinoma: a randomized controlled trial with at least 5 -year follow -up. J Am  Acad 
Dermatol 2013;69:280 -287. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23566914 . 
241. Cosgarea R, Susan M, Crisan M, Senila S. Photodynamic therapy using topical 5 -aminolaevulinic acid vs. surgery for basal cell 
carcinoma. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2013;27:980 -984. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22738399.  
242. Wang H, Xu Y, Shi J, et al. Photodynamic therapy in the 
treatment of basal cell carcinoma: a systematic review and meta -
analysis. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 2015;31:44- 53. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25377432 . 
243. Rhodes LE, de Rie M, Enstrom Y, et al. Photodynamic therapy 
using topical methyl aminolevulinate vs surgery for nodular basal cell 
carcinoma: results of a multicenter randomized prospective trial. Arch 
Dermatol 2004;140:17 -23. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14732655 . 
244. Collier NJ, Haylett AK, Wong TH, et al. Conventional and combination topical photodynamic therapy for basal cell carcinoma: 
systematic review and meta- analysis. Br J Dermatol 2018;179:1277 -
1296. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29889302 . 
245. Zou Y, Zhao Y, Yu J, et al. Photodynamic therapy versus surgical 
excision to basal cell carcinoma: meta- analysis. J Cosmet Dermatol 
2016;15:374 -382. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27363535 . 246. Horn M, Wolf P, Wulf HC, et al. Topical methyl aminolaevulinate photodynamic therapy in patients with basal cell carcinoma prone to 
complications and poor cosmetic outcome with conventional 
treatment. Br J Dermatol 2003;149:1242 -1249. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14674903 . 
247. Christensen E, Mork C, Skogvoll E. High and sustained efficacy 
after two sessions of topical 5 -aminolaevulinic acid photodynamic 
therapy for basal cell carcinoma: a prospective, clinical and 
histological 10- year follow -up study. Br J Dermatol 2012;166:1342 -
1348. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22309486 . 
248. Zeitouni NC, Shieh S, Oseroff AR. Laser and photodynamic 
therapy in the management of cutaneous malignancies. Clin Dermatol 
2001;19:328 -338. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11479045 . 
249. Osiecka B, Jurczyszyn K, Ziolkowski P. The application of 
Levulan -based photodynamic therapy with imiquimod in the treatment 
of recurrent basal cell carcinoma. Med Sci Monit 2012;18:PI5 -9. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22293891 . 
250. Mosterd K, Thissen MR, Nelemans P, et al. Fractionated 5 -
aminolaevulinic acid -photodynamic therapy vs. surgical excision in the 
treatment of nodular basal cell carcinoma: results of a randomized 
controlled trial. Br J Dermatol 2008;159:864- 870. Availa ble at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18717680 . 
251. Fantini F, Greco A, Del Giovane C, et al. Photodynamic therapy 
for basal cell carcinoma: clinical and pathological determinants of 
response. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2011;25:896 -901. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21054566.  
252. Vinciullo C, Elliott T, Francis D, et al. Photodynamic therapy with 
topical methyl aminolaevulinate for 'difficult -to-treat' basal cell 
carcinoma. Br J Dermatol 2005;152:765 -772. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15840111 . 
253. Sotiriou E, Apalla Z, Maliamani F, et al. Intraindividual, right -left 
comparison of topical 5 -aminolevulinic acid photodynamic therapy vs. 
5% imiquimod cream for actinic keratoses on the upper extremities. J 
Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2009;23:1061 -1065. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19470041 . 
254. Morton CA, McKenna KE, Rhodes LE, et al. Guidelines for topical 
photodynamic therapy: update. Br J Dermatol 2008;159:1245 -1266. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18945319 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-29 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 255. Kokoszka A, Scheinfeld N. Evidence -based review of the use of 
cryosurgery in treatment of basal cell carcinoma. Dermatol Surg 
2003;29:566 -571. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12786697 . 
256. Kuflik EG, Gage AA. The five- year cure rate achieved by 
cryosurgery for skin cancer. J Am Acad Dermatol 1991;24:1002- 1004. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1820761 . 
257. Mallon E, Dawber R. Cryosurgery in the treatment of basal cell 
carcinoma. Assessment of one and two freeze- thaw cycle schedules. 
Dermatol Surg 1996;22:854- 858. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9246168.  
258. Wang I, Bendsoe N, Klinteberg CA, et al. Photodynamic therapy vs. cryosurgery of basal cell carcinomas: results of a phase III clinical 
trial. Br J Dermatol 2001;144:832 -840. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11298545 . 
259. Basset -Seguin N, Ibbotson SH, Emtestam L, et al. Topical methyl 
aminolaevulinate photodynamic therapy versus cryotherapy for superficial basal cell carcinoma: a 5 year randomized trial. Eur J 
Dermatol 2008;18:547 -553. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18693158 . 
260. Thissen MR, Nieman FH, Ideler AH, et al. Cosmetic results of cryosurgery versus surgical excision for primary uncomplicated basal 
cell carcinomas of the head and neck. Dermatol Surg 2000;26:759-
764. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10940063.  
261. Roozeboom MH, Arits AH, Nelemans PJ, Kelleners -Smeets NW. 
Overall treatment success after treatment of primary superficial basal 
cell carcinoma: a systematic review and meta- analysis of randomized 
and nonrandomized trials. Br J Dermatol 2012;167:733- 756. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22612571.  
262. Roozeboom MH, Nelemans PJ, Mosterd K, et al. Photodynamic 
therapy vs. topical imiquimod for treatment of superficial basal cell 
carcinoma: a subgroup analysis within a noninferiority randomized 
controlled trial. Br J Dermatol 2015;172:739- 745. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25066012 . 
263. Chen AC, Martin AJ, Choy B, et al. A phase 3 randomized trial of 
nicotinamide for skin -cancer chemoprevention. N Engl J Med 
2015;373:1618 -1626. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26488693 . 264. Chen AC, Martin AJ, Dalziell RA, et al. A phase II randomized 
controlled trial of nicotinamide for skin cancer chemoprevention in 
renal transplant recipients. Br J Dermatol 2016;175:1073- 1075. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27061568 . 
265. Mainville L, Smilga AS, Fortin PR. Effect of Nicotinamide in Skin 
Cancer and Actinic Keratoses Chemoprophylaxis, and Adverse Effects 
Related to Nicotinamide: A Systematic Review and Meta -Analysis. J 
Cutan Med Surg 2022;26:297 -308. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35134311 . 
266. Allen NC, Martin AJ, Snaidr VA, et al. Nicotinamide for Skin -
Cancer Chemoprevention in Transplant Recipients. N Engl J Med 2023;388:804 -812. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36856616 . 
267. Elmets CA, Viner JL, Pentland AP, et al. Chemoprevention of nonmelanoma skin cancer with celecoxib: a randomized, double- blind, 
placebo -controlled trial. J Natl Cancer Inst 2010;102:1835 -1844. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21115882 . 
268. Kadakia KC, Barton DL, Loprinzi CL, et al. Randomized 
controlled trial of acitretin versus placebo in patients at high -risk for 
basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (North Central 
Cancer Treatment Group Study 969251). Cancer 2012;118:2128-
2137. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21882176 . 
269. Schauder DM, Kim J, Nijhawan RI. Evaluation of the use of 
capecitabine for the treatment and prevention of actinic keratoses, 
squamous cell carcinoma, and basal cell carcinoma: A systematic 
review. JAMA Dermatol 2020;156:1117 -1124. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32639538 . 
270. Tang JY, Chiou AS, Mackay -Wiggan JM, et al. Tazarotene: 
randomized, double- blind, vehicle -controlled, and open- label 
concurrent trials for basal cell carcinoma prevention and therapy in patients with basal cell nevus syndrome. Cancer Prev Res (Phila) 
2014;7:292- 299. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24441673 . 
271. Drugs@FDA: FDA -Approved Drugs. U.S. Food & Drug 
Administration; Available at: 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/daf/index.cfm . Accessed 
9/27/2024.  
272. Sekulic A, Migden MR, Oro AE, et al. Efficacy and safety of 
vismodegib in advanced basal -cell carcinoma. N Engl J Med PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-30 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 2012;366:2171 -2179. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22670903 . 
273. Sekulic A, Migden MR, Lewis K, et al. Pivotal ERIVANCE basal 
cell carcinoma (BCC) study: 12 -month update of efficacy and safety of 
vismodegib in advanced BCC. J Am Acad Dermatol 2015;72:1021-1026 e1028. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25981002 . 
274. Sekulic A, Migden MR, Basset -Seguin N, et al. Long -term safety 
and efficacy of vismodegib in patients with advanced basal cell carcinoma: final update of the pivotal ERIVANCE BCC study. BMC 
Cancer 2017;17:332. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28511673 . 
275. Dreno B, Basset -Seguin N, Caro I, et al. Clinical benefit 
assessment of vismodegib therapy in patients with advanced basal cell carcinoma. Oncologist 2014;19:790- 796. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25001266 . 
276. Tang JY, Mackay -Wiggan JM, Aszterbaum M, et al. Inhibiting the 
hedgehog pathway in patients with the basal -cell nevus syndrome. N 
Engl J Med 2012;366:2180- 2188. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22670904 . 
277. Tang JY, Ally MS, Chanana AM, et al. Inhibition of the hedgehog 
pathway in patients with basal -cell nevus syndrome: final results from 
the multicentre, randomised, double- blind, placebo- controlled, phase 2 
trial. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:1720- 1731. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27838224 . 
278. Ally MS, Tang JY, Joseph T, et al. The use of vismodegib to shrink keratocystic odontogenic tumors in patients with basal cell 
nevus syndrome. JAMA Dermatol 2014;150:542 -545. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24623282 . 
279. Migden MR, Guminski A, Gutzmer R, et al. Treatment with two 
different doses of sonidegib in patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic basal cell carcinoma (BOLT): a multicentre, randomised, 
double- blind phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2015;16:716 -728. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25981810.  
280. Lewis K, Dummer R, Farberg AS, et al. Effects of sonidegib 
following dose reduction and treatment interruption in patients with 
advanced basal cell carcinoma during 42 -month BOLT trial. Dermatol 
Ther (Heidelb) 2021;11:2225- 2234. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34669179 . 281. Lear JT, Migden MR, Lewis KD, et al. Long -term efficacy and 
safety of sonidegib in patients with locally advanced and metastatic 
basal cell carcinoma: 30 -month analysis of the randomized phase 2 
BOLT study. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2018;32:372 -381. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28846163 . 
282. Dummer R, Guminksi A, Gutzmer R, et al. Long- term efficacy and 
safety of sonidegib in patients with advanced basal cell carcinoma: 42 -
month analysis of the phase II randomized, double- blind BOLT study. 
Br J Dermatol 2020;182:1369- 1378. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31545507 . 
283. Dummer R, Lear JT, Guminski A, et al. Efficacy of sonidegib in 
histologic subtypes of advanced basal cell carcinoma: Results from 
the final analysis of the randomized phase 2 Basal Cell Carcinoma 
Outcomes With LDE225 Treatment (BOLT) trial at 42 months. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 2021;84:1162- 1164. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33358380 . 
284. Gutzmer R, Robert C, Loquai C, et al. Assessment of various 
efficacy outcomes using ERIVANCE -like criteria in patients with locally 
advanced basal cell carcinoma receiving sonidegib: results from a preplanned sensitivity analysis. BMC Cancer 2021;21:1244. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34798846.  
285. Danial C, Sarin KY, Oro AE, Chang AL. An investigator -initiated 
open- label trial of sonidegib in advanced basal cell carcinoma patients 
resistant to vismodegib. Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:1325- 1329. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26546616 . 
286. Ally MS, Aasi S, Wysong A, et al. An investigator -initiated open -
label clinical trial of vismodegib as a neoadjuvant to surgery for high -
risk basal cell carcinoma. J Am Acad Dermatol 2014;71:904- 911 e901. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24929884 . 
287. Sofen H, Gross KG, Goldberg LH, et al. A phase II, multicenter, 
open- label, 3 -cohort trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of 
vismodegib in operable basal cell carcinoma. J Am Acad Dermatol 2015;73:99- 105 e101. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25913533 . 
288. Tauber G, Pavlovsky L, Fenig E, Hodak E. Vismodegib for 
radiation- induced multiple basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) of the scalp. J 
Am Acad Dermatol 2015;73:799 -801. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26320385 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written per mission of NCCN.   MS-31 
NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Basal Cell Skin Cancer   
 289. Bertrand N, Guerreschi P, Basset -Seguin N, et al. Vismodegib in 
neoadjuvant treatment of locally advanced basal cell carcinoma: First 
results of a multicenter, open- label, phase 2 trial (VISMONEO study): 
Neoadjuvant Vismodegib in Locally Advanced Basal Cell Carcinoma. 
EClinicalMedicine 2021;35:100844. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33997740 . 
290. Dreno B, Kunstfeld R, Hauschild A, et al. Two intermittent vismodegib dosing regimens in patients with multiple basal -cell 
carcinomas (MIKIE): a randomised, regimen -controlled, double- blind, 
phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2017;18:404 -412. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28188086 . 
291. Scalvenzi M, Cappello M, Costa C, et al. Low -dose vismodegib 
as maintenance therapy after locally advanced basal cell carcinoma 
complete remission: High efficacy with minimal toxicity. Dermatol Ther 
(Heidelb) 2020;10:465 -468. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32240528 . 
292. Jimeno A, Weiss GJ, Miller WH, Jr., et al. Phase I study of the 
hedgehog pathway inhibitor IPI -926 in adult patients with solid tumors. 
Clin Cancer Res 2013;19:2766- 2774. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23575478 . 
293. Kim DJ, Kim J, Spaunhurst K, et al. Open- label, exploratory 
phase II trial of oral itraconazole for the treatment of basal cell 
carcinoma. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:745 -751. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24493717 . 
294. Stratigos AJ, Sekulic A, Peris K, et al. Cemiplimab in locally 
advanced basal cell carcinoma after hedgehog inhibitor therapy: an 
open- label, multi -centre, single -arm, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 
2021;22:848 -857. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34000246 . 
295. Carneiro BA, Watkin WG, Mehta UK, Brockstein BE. Metastatic 
basal cell carcinoma: complete response to chemotherapy and 
associated pure red cell aplasia. Cancer Invest 2006;24:396- 400. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16777692 . 
296. Jefford M, Kiffer JD, Somers G, et al. Metastatic basal cell 
carcinoma: rapid symptomatic response to cisplatin and paclitaxel. 
ANZ J Surg 2004;74:704- 705. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15315581 . 
297. Ganti AK, Kessinger A. Systemic therapy for disseminated basal 
cell carcinoma: an uncommon manifestation of a common cancer. Cancer Treat Rev 2011;37:440- 443. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21216106 . 
298. Wysong A, Aasi SZ, Tang JY. Update on metastatic basal cell 
carcinoma: a summary of published cases from 1981 through 2011. 
JAMA Dermatol 2013;149:615 -616. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23677097 . 
299. Pfeiffer P, Hansen O, Rose C. Systemic cytotoxic therapy of 
basal cell carcinoma. A review of the literature. Eur J Cancer 
1990;26:73- 77. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2138485.  
300. Moeholt K, Aagaard H, Pfeiffer P, Hansen O. Platinum -based 
cytotoxic therapy in basal cell carcinoma --a review of the literature. 
Acta Oncol 1996;35:677 -682. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8938213.  
301. Guthrie TH, Jr., Porubsky ES, Luxenberg MN, et al. Cisplatin -
based chemotherapy in advanced basal and squamous cell 
carcinomas of the skin: results in 28 patients including 13 patients 
receiving multimodality therapy. J Clin Oncol 1990;8:342 -346. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2405109 . 
302. Robinson JK. Follow -up and prevention (basal cell carcinoma). 
In: Miller SJ, Maloney ME, eds. Cutaneous Oncology Pathophysiology, 
diagnosis, and management. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science; 
1998:695 -698. 
303. Marcil I, Stern RS. Risk of developing a subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancer in patients with a history of nonmelanoma 
skin cancer: a critical review of the literature and meta- analysis. Arch 
Dermatol 2000;136:1524- 1530. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11115165 . 
304. Ramachandran S, Rajaratnam R, Smith AG, et al. Patients with 
both basal and squamous cell carcinomas are at a lower risk of further 
basal cell carcinomas than patients with only a basal cell carcinoma. J 
Am Acad Dermatol 2009;61:247 -251. Available at:  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19481292 . 
305. Flohil SC, van der Leest RJ, Arends LR, et al. Risk of subsequent 
cutaneous malignancy in patients with prior keratinocyte carcinoma: a 
systematic review and meta- analysis. Eur J Cancer 2013;49:2365-
2375. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23608733 . 
 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:18:39 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.