Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)Gastrointestinal Stromal
Tumors
Version 1.2025 — April 17, 2025
ContinueNCCN.org
NCCN recognizes the importance of clinical trials and encourages participation when applicable and available. 
Trials should be designed to maximize inclusiveness and broad representative enrollment.
NCCN Guidelines for Patients® available at www.nccn.org/patients

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
NCCN Guidelines Panel Disclosures Continueф Diagnostic/Interventional 
radiology
‡  Hematology/Hematologic 
oncology
Þ Internal medicine
† Medical oncology
τ  Orthopedics/Orthopedic 
oncology ≠ Pathology
¥ Patient advocacy
€ Pediatric oncology 
§  Radiotherapy/Radiation 
oncology
¶  Surgery/Surgical oncology
* Discussion writing 
committee member*Margaret von Mehren, MD/Chair †  
Fox Chase Cancer Center
*John M. Kane III, MD/Vice-Chair ¶  
Roswell Park Comprehensive  
Cancer Center
Samantha A. Armstrong, MD †  
Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Tessa Balach, MD τ ¶  
The UChicago Medicine  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Andrew J. Bishop, MD §  
The University of Texas  
MD Anderson Cancer Center 
Darya Buehler, MD ≠  
University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center
Janai Carr-Ascher, MD, PhD †  
UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center
Edwin Choy, MD, PhD †  
Mass General Cancer Center
Cara Cipriano, MD, MSc ¶  
Abramson Cancer Center  
at the University of Pennsylvania
Mary Connolly, MSW ¥  
The Ohio State University Comprehensive 
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  
and Solove Research Institute
Amanda Dann, MD ¶  
UT Southwestern Simmons  
Comprehensive Cancer Center 
Elizabeth J. Davis, MD Þ †  
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center 
Sarah Dry, MD ≠  
UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
Vanessa Eulo, MD †  
O'Neal Comprehensive  
Cancer Center at UAB Kristen N. Ganjoo, MD †  
Stanford Cancer Institute
Ricardo J. Gonzalez, MD ¶  
Moffitt Cancer Center
Pedro A. Hermida De Viveiros, MD ‡ 
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer  
Center of Northwestern University
Ying J. Hitchcock, MD §  
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of Utah
Edward Kim, MD §  
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
Daniel Lefler, MD Þ †  
Abramson Cancer Center  
at the University of Pennsylvania
David Liebner, MD Þ †  
The Ohio State University Comprehensive 
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  
and Solove Research Institute
Martin McCarter, MD ¶  
University of Colorado Cancer Center
Sean V. McGarry, MD ¶ τ  
Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
Nathan W. Mesko, MD τ  
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/  
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center 
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
Christian Meyer, MD, PhD †  
Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center
Kambiz Motamedi, MD ф 
UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
Sujana Movva, MD †  
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
Alberto S. Pappo, MD €  
St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital/The 
University of Tennessee Health Science CenterSeth M. Pollack, MD †  
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer  
Center of Northwestern University
Matthew Poppe, MD §  
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of Utah
Richard F. Riedel, MD †  
Duke Cancer Institute
Steven Robinson, MBBS †  
Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center
Scott M. Schuetze, MD, PhD †  
University of Michigan  
Rogel Cancer Center
Jason K. Sicklick, MD ¶  
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
William W. Tseng, MD ¶  
City of Hope National Medical Center
Mia C. Weiss, MD †  
Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-  
Jewish Hospital and Washington  
University School of Medicine
Melissa Zimel, MD τ ¶  
UCSF Helen Diller Family  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
NCCN
Zeenat Diwan, MS, PhD 
Lisa E. Hang, PhD
Mary Anne BergmanPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way . The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may not 
be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2025.NCCN Soft Tissue Sarcoma Panel Members
Summary of the Guidelines Updates
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (GIST)
• Workup at Primary Presentation (GIST-1)
• Resectable GIST with Significant Morbidity (GIST-2)
• Postoperative Outcomes and Adjuvant Treatment (GIST-3)
• Unresectable, Recurrent, or Metastatic GIST (GIST-4)
• Treatment for Progressive Disease (GIST-5)
• Principles of Biopsy and Risk Stratification for GIST (GIST-A)
• Principles of Mutation Testing (GIST-B)
• General Principles of Surgery (GIST-C)
• Principles of Interventional Oncology (GIST-D)
• Systemic Therapy Agents and Regimens for GIST (GIST-E)
• Principles of Imaging (GIST-F)
Staging (ST-1)
Abbreviations (ABBR-1)Find an NCCN Member Institution: 
https://www.nccn.org/home/member-
institutions .
NCCN Categories of Evidence and 
Consensus: All recommendations are 
category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
See NCCN Categories of Evidence  
and Consensus .
NCCN Categories of Preference:  
All recommendations are considered 
appropriate.
See NCCN Categories of Preference .PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESUpdates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors from Version 2.2024 include:
GIST-1
Workup at Primary Presentation
• Deleted: Consider chest imaging from lower pathway.
• Column 2, modified: No high-risk EUS or biopsy  features.
Footnotes:
• Deleted, h: Some patients may rapidly become unresectable; close monitoring is essential. (Also for GIST-2).
• New: Consider baseline chest imaging.
• Modified, m: General Principles of Surgery (GIST-C) and Principles of Interventional Oncology (GIST-D) . (Also for GIST-2, GIST-4, GIST-5).
• Deleted: Neoadjuvant therapy for genotype-sensitive disease may prohibit accurate assessment of recurrence risk following resection  
(GIST-A). Testing tumor for mutation is recommended prior to starting preoperative therapy to ensure tumor has a genotype that is likely to respond to treatment 
(GIST-2). Consider neoadjuvant therapy only if surgical morbidity could be reduced by downsizing the tumor preoperatively (GIST-E). Maximal response may require 
treatment for 6 months or more to achieve. Once maximal response is achieved, consider surgical resection.
GIST-2
Neoadjuvant Therapy
• Column 3, last sentence, modified: Forgo neoadjuvant therapy if other mutations  (other than listed above)
Footnotes:
• p, modified: Maximal response may require treatment for 6 months or more to achieve. Once maximal response is achieved, consider surgical resection.  
• q, modified to include: FDG-PET/CT may give indication of TKI imatinib  efficacy after 2–4 weeks of therapy when rapid readout of activity is necessary. (Also for GIST-
4).
• t, deleted last sentence: Maximal response may require treatment for 6 months or more to achieve.
GIST-3   
Postoperative Outcomes
• Column 1, row 3, modified: Completely resected after neoadjuvant therapy with agent other than imatinib avapritinib, larotrectinib, entrectinib, sunitinib, or dabrafenib + 
trametinib
• Row 4, modified: Gross residual disease (R2 resection) or and  Preoperative/intraoperative  tumor rupture
Adjuvant Treatment
• Completely resected (no neoadjuvant therapy), modified: Adjuvant imatinib (category 1) preferred for patients with significant risk of recurrence ( intermediate  moderate  
or high risk if patient has an imatinib-sensitive mutation). (Also for the completely resected after neoadjuvant imatinib arm).
Follow-Up
• Modified to include the following: after 10 y, individualize surveillance
Footnote:
• w, 2nd sentence modified: Available data support the use of adjuvant imatinib for high-risk disease for at least 3 years (based on overall survival benefit  and 6 years 
based on disease-free survival benefit) . Last sentence added: Other references include Joensuu H, et al. JAMA Oncol 2020;6:1241-6, and Blay J-Y, et al. Ann Oncol 
2024;35:1157-1168).
GIST-4
Footnotes:
• Deleted: Consider resection or ablation/liver-directed therapy for hepatic metastatic disease.
• Deleted: Resection of metastatic disease, especially if complete resection can be achieved, may be beneficial in patients on imatinib or sunitinib who have evidence of 
radiographic response, or limited disease progression.
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESGIST-5
Treatment for Progressive Disease
Limited
• Bullet 1, sub-bullet 2 modified: Ablation procedures or embolization, radioembolization , or chemoembolization.
• Bullet 2, sub-bullet 1 modified: Switch to alternate TKI sunitinib (category 1)  
Generalized (widespread, systemic)
• If disease For performance status (PS) 0–2 and
GIST-A (1 of 3)
Principles of Biopsy and Risk Stratification for GIST  
Risk stratification
• Sub-bullet 1, 2nd sentence, modified: Neoadjuvant therapy that has evidence of pathologic treatment effect will not yield accurate mitotic information.  
Mitotic rate information might be inaccurate following neoadjuvant therapy , if there is other evidence of pathologic treatment effect (necrosis, reduced 
cellularity, etc). If risk stratification is performed on a small biopsy or on a resection specimen following neoadjuvant therapy, there is potential for 
inaccuracies in the mitotic rate.  In this situation, risk stratification may need to be based on clinical parameters, size, and anatomic location instead . in 
the absence of mitotic rate.
GIST A (2 of 3)
• Risk stratification is determined without any prior exposure to TKI therapy.
GIST-B
Principles of Mutation Testing 
• Bullet 4, 2nd sentence, modified: Most PDGFRA mutations are associated with a response to imatinib, with the exception of D842V, which responds to 
avapritinib and  which  is unlikely to respond to imatinib and most other approved TKIs for GIST. except for avapritinib
• Bullet 10, new:  Germline KIT and PDGFRA testing should be considered for the following: patients with a family history of GIST and/or melanoma, 
patients with multifocal GIST, and/or patients with NF1 or SDH-deficient GIST. 
GIST-C
General Principles of Surgery
Considerations Prior to Surgery
• Bullet 2, modified: Patients with SDH-deficient tumors or known SDH mutations  SDH germline mutations  are at risk of paraganglioma; 
GIST-E (1 of 4)
Systemic Therapy Agents and Regimens for GIST
• Neoadjuvant therapy, bullet 1, modified to include such as including  D842V. Also for GIST-E 2 of 4.
• Adjuvant therapy, bullet 1, modified: ...significant risk of recurrence, intermediate  moderate  or high risk....
GIST-F
Principles of Imaging
Workup
• Bullet 1, modified: CT abdomen/pelvis with contrast and/or MRI abdomen/pelvis  with and without contrast. Also for bullet 2, sub-bullet 1; Response 
Assessment: bullet 3, sub-bullet 1, bullet 5 sub-bullet 1, bullet 9, sub-bullet 1. 
• Bullet 2, sub-bullet 2, modified: Consider baseline chest imaging (x-ray or CT)  for unresectable or metastatic disease.
Follow-up
• Bullet 1, modified: For completely resected primary disease, perform CT  abdomen/pelvis with contrast and/or MRI abdomen/pelvis with and without 
contrast every 3–6 months for 3– 5 years, then annually . After 10 years, surveillance should be individualized.
Less frequent imaging surveillance may be acceptable for low-risk  or very small gastric  tumors (<2 cm) . For low-risk tumors, see (GIST-A).Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors from Version 2.2024 include:PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-1MANAGEMENT BASED ON THE RESULTS OF INITIAL DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION
• Mass known to be or clinically 
suspicious for GISTd
Imagingc 
Genotyping should be 
performed when medical 
therapy is being consideredePostoperative 
Outcomes and 
Treatment (GIST-3)
(GIST-4)Resectable with minimal morbidity
Resectable 
with significant 
morbidityh,i If neoadjuvant therapy is 
planned, biopsyb,k for diagnosis, 
molecular testing, and (if 
feasible) risk stratificationSee (GIST-2) for 
neoadjuvant therapy 
based on molecular 
testing to decrease 
surgical morbidity
Unresectable or metastatic diseasej• All patients should be evaluated and treated by a multidisciplinary team with 
expertise and experience in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST)
High-risk EUSf or 
biopsy featuresgNo high-risk EUS or 
biopsy features
Complete 
surgical 
resectionmConsider periodic endoscopic or radiographic 
surveillancec,lWORKUP AT PRIMARY 
PRESENTATION
• For very small gastric GIST <2 cma
Consider endoscopic ultrasound-
guided fine-needle aspiration 
biopsy (EUS-FNAB)b or 
Endoscopic ultrasound-guided 
core needle biopsy (EUS-CNB)
Imagingc
a Sepe PS, et al. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol 2009;6:363-371.
b Principles of Biopsy and Risk Stratification for GIST (GIST-A). 
c Principles of Imaging (GIST-F).
d See American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) Staging, 8th Edition (ST-1).
e Mutational analysis may predict response to therapy with tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs) (GIST-B). Tumors with succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) 
deficiency or NF1 mutations that lack mutations in  
KIT/PDGFRA may be considered for observation as most, but not all, have more 
indolent behavior.
f Possible high-risk EUS features include irregular border, cystic spaces, 
ulceration, echogenic foci, and heterogeneity.
g Possible high-risk pathologic biopsy features include the presence of mitoses 
and/or tumor necrosis.h Extensive surgery associated with significant morbidity (ie, total gastrectomy to 
reduce risk of recurrence in stomach) is generally not recommended for SDH-
deficient GIST with multifocal disease.
i Neoadjuvant therapy for genotype-sensitive disease should be considered for 
locally advanced GIST in certain anatomical locations, (eg, rectum, esophageal 
and esophagogastric junction, duodenum), if a multivisceral resection would 
be required to resect all gross tumor, or in patients who have significant 
comorbidities and are not fit for surgery.
j Consider baseline chest imaging.  
k See NCCN Guidelines for Soft Tissue Sarcoma  if the pathology results indicate 
sarcomas of gastrointestinal origin other than GIST. 
l Endoscopic ultrasonography surveillance should only be considered after a 
thorough discussion with the patient regarding the risks and benefits. Evans J, et 
al. Gastrointest Endosc 2015;82:1-8.
m General Principles of Surgery (GIST-C).PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-2PRIMARY 
PRESENTATIONNEOADJUVANT THERAPYn,o FOLLOW-UP THERAPY
Resectable 
GIST with 
significant  
morbiditynImatinibe for KIT or PDGFRA mutations 
(excluding PDGFRA exon 18 mutations 
that are insensitive to imatinib, including 
D842V)  
Avapritinib for GIST with  PDGFRA exon 18 
mutations that are insensitive to imatinib 
(including PDGFRA D842V) 
NTRK-directed therapies for NTRK fusions
For succinate dehydrogenase (SDH)-
deficient GIST:
Sunitinib  
or  
Observation (category 2B)
or
Clinical trial
BRAF-directed therapies for certain  
BRAF mutations 
Forgo neoadjuvant therapy if other 
mutations (other than listed above)Imagingc 
to assess 
treatment 
responsep,q,r 
and evaluate 
patient 
adherenceResponsep  
or  
stable diseases
ProgressionrSurgery, if 
feasiblem,t
after 
maximal 
responsep
Surgery, if 
feasiblem,t
If surgery not 
feasible,
see (GIST-5)Postoperative 
Outcomes  
and Adjuvant
Treatment 
(GIST-3)Mutational 
testinge (next- 
generation 
sequencing 
[NGS]) +  
SDHB  
immuno- 
histochemistry 
(IHC)
p Maximal response may require treatment for 6 months or more to achieve.  
q FDG-PET/CT may give indication of TKI efficacy after 2–4 weeks of therapy 
when rapid readout of activity is necessary. Frequency of response assessment 
imaging may be decreased if patient's disease is responding to treatment. See 
Principles of Imaging (GIST-F).
r Progression may be determined by contrast-enhanced CT or MR imaging with 
clinical interpretation; FDG-PET/CT scan may be used to clarify if CT or MRI are 
ambiguous. Increase in tumor size in the presence of decrease in tumor density 
is consistent with drug efficacy or benefit. See Principles of Imaging (GIST-F).
s Monitor for maximal response if feasible; if maximal response is achieved 
proceed to surgery. 
t Collaboration between medical oncologist and surgeon is necessary to determine 
the appropriateness and timing of surgery, following major response or sustained 
stable disease. c Principles of Imaging (GIST-F).
e Mutational analysis may predict response to therapy with TKIs (GIST-B). 
Tumors with SDH deficiency or NF1 mutations that lack mutations in KIT/
PDGFRA may be considered for observation as most, but not all, have more 
indolent behavior. 
m General Principles of Surgery (GIST-C).
n Neoadjuvant therapy for genotype-sensitive disease may prohibit accurate 
assessment of recurrence risk following resection (GIST-A). Testing tumor 
for mutation is recommended prior to starting preoperative therapy to ensure 
tumor has a genotype that is likely to respond to treatment (see above). 
Consider neoadjuvant therapy only if surgical morbidity could be reduced by 
downsizing the tumor preoperatively (GIST-E). 
o Medical therapy is the usual course of treatment. However, patient may 
proceed to surgery if bleeding or symptomatic tumor or poor treatment 
tolerance.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-3c Principles of Imaging (GIST-F).
e Mutational analysis may predict response to therapy with TKIs (GIST-B). Tumors with SDH deficiency or NF1 mutations that lack mutations in KIT/PDGFRA  may be 
considered for observation as most, but not all, have more indolent behavior. 
u Completely resected (R0/R1). See GIST-C.
v Some stratification schemes have included tumor rupture, which has been associated with a much higher risk of recurrence. Nishida T, et al. Ann Surg Oncol 
2018;25:1961-1969 and Rutkowski P, et al. Ann Surg Oncol 2007;14:2018-2027.
w The optimal duration of adjuvant imatinib is unknown. Available data support the use of adjuvant imatinib for high-risk disease for at least 3 years (based on overall 
survival benefit and 6 years based on disease-free survival benefit). The PERSIST study has shown the feasibility of 5-year adjuvant imatinib with no evidence of 
recurrence in patients with imatinib-sensitive GIST (Raut CP, et al. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:e184060. Other references include Joensuu H, et al. JAMA Oncol 2020;6: 
1241-6, and Blay J-Y, et al. Ann Oncol 2024;35:1157-1168).
x Less frequent surveillance may be acceptable for very small tumors (<2 cm), unless they are associated with high mitotic rate.POSTOPERATIVE 
OUTCOMESADJUVANT TREATMENT FOLLOW-UP
If Recurrence,
see (GIST-4)
Gross residual disease (R2 resection) 
or
Preoperative/intraoperative  tumor 
rupturevCompletely resectedu 
after neoadjuvant imatinibCompletely resectedu 
(no neoadjuvant therapy)
Consider continuation of adjuvant imatinib 
(preferred) for patients with significant risk 
of recurrence (moderate or high risk)e,w 
(GIST-A)Observe (low-risk disease or non–imatinib-
sensitive tumors) 
or 
Adjuvant imatinib (category 1) preferred for 
patients with significant risk of recurrence 
(moderate or high risk if patient has an 
imatinib-sensitive mutation)e,w (GIST-A)History and 
physical (H&P) 
and imagingc 
every 3–6 mo for 
5 y (every 3 mo 
if high risk), then 
annuallyx; after 
10 y, individualize 
surveillance 
Metastatic 
disease (GIST-4)
For Systemic 
Therapy 
(GIST-E)Completely resectedu after 
neoadjuvant therapy with agent 
other than imatinibObserve
Should be considered as metastatic diseasePLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-4c Principles of Imaging (GIST-F).
e Mutational analysis may predict response to therapy with TKIs (GIST-B). Tumors with SDH deficiency or NF1 mutations that lack mutations in KIT/PDGFRA  may be 
considered for observation as most, but not all, have more indolent behavior.
m General Principles of Surgery (GIST-C).
p Maximal response may require treatment for 6 months or more to achieve. 
q FDG-PET/CT may give indication of TKI efficacy after 2–4 weeks of therapy when rapid readout of activity is necessary. Frequency of response assessment imaging 
may be decreased if patient's disease is responding to treatment. See Principles of Imaging (GIST-F).
r Progression may be determined by contrast-enhanced CT or MR imaging with clinical interpretation; FDG-PET/CT scan may be used to clarify if CT or MRI are 
ambiguous. Increase in tumor size in the presence of decrease in tumor density is consistent with drug ef ficacy or benefit. See Principles of Imaging (GIST-F).
t Collaboration between medical oncologist and surgeon is necessary to determine the appropriateness and timing of surgery, following major response or sustained 
stable disease. 
y Systemic Therapy Agents and Regimens for Unresectable, Progressive, or Metastatic Disease (GIST-E).PRIMARY 
PRESENTATIONFIRST-LINE THERAPY FOLLOW-UP THERAPY
Continue TKI,e,y 
obtain surgical  
consultation, 
consider 
resectiontResectionm
or
Continue TKIe,y 
if resection  
not feasiblePostoperative 
Outcomes and 
Adjuvant 
Treatment 
(GIST-3)
(GIST-5)Imagingc 
to assess 
treatment 
responsep,q,r
and evaluate 
patient 
adherence• Baseline 
imagingc,q
• Mutational 
testinge,y 
(NGS) + SDHB 
IHC
ProgressionrH&P and 
imagingc,r  
(GIST-F)Tyrosine 
kinase 
inhibitor 
(TKI)e,y
Recurrent  
or metastatic 
diseaseUnresectable 
primary 
disease
Life-long 
systemic therapy 
is  
recommended 
for TKI-sensitive 
GISTe,yStable 
diseaseContinue TKIe,yResponsepPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-5m General Principles of Surgery (GIST-C) .
z Clinical experience suggests that discontinuing TKI therapy, even in the setting of progressive disease, may accelerate the pace of disease progression and worsen 
symptoms.
aa Consider resection or ablation/liver-directed therapy for hepatic metastatic disease.
bb Resection of metastatic disease, especially if complete resection can be achieved, may be beneficial in patients on imatinib or sunitinib who have evidence of 
radiographic response, or limited disease progression.
cc Reintroduction of imatinib can be considered for palliation of symptoms. Consider continuation of imatinib for palliation of symptoms as part of best supportive care.TREATMENT FOR PROGRESSIVE DISEASE
ProgressionLimited
Generalized 
(widespread, 
systemic)• Continue with the same dose of TKI and consider 
the following options for lesions progressing on 
imatinib or avapritinibz: 
Resection,m if feasibleaa,bb
Ablation procedures or embolization, 
radioembolization, or chemoembolization (GIST-D)
Palliative radiation therapy (RT) (category 2B) for 
symptomatic lesions  
• If previously treated with standard-dose imatinib:
Switch to alternate TKI (GIST-E)
Dose escalation of imatinib as tolerated  
(if previously treated with standard-dose imatinib; 
may be most effective for patients with KIT exon 9 
mutation)
If disease progression on imatinib or avapritinib:
• Switch to alternate TKI (GIST-E)  
or
• Dose escalation of imatinib as tolerated  
(if previously treated with standard-dose imatinib; 
may be most effective for patients with KIT exon 9 
mutation)If disease is progressing despite 
prior therapies, consider the following 
options: 
Clinical trial
or 
Consider other options listed in GIST-E 
(based on limited data) 
or
Consider repeat tumor biopsy to 
potentially identify uncommon mutations 
that may have a corresponding targeted 
therapy
or
Best supportive careccPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-A
1 OF 3PRINCIPLES OF BIOPSY AND RISK STRATIFICATION FOR GIST
• An endoscopic transmural biopsy would be favored over a percutaneous transperitoneal biopsy, as the risk for peritoneal seeding is lower 
for this technique. However, percutaneous image-guided biopsy may be appropriate for the confirmation of locally advanced or metastatic 
disease. Consideration of biopsy should be based on the suspected tumor type and extent of disease. Biopsy is necessary to confirm the 
diagnosis of primary GIST prior to the initiation of preoperative therapy.
• Morphologic diagnosis based on microscopic examination of histologic sections is the standard for GIST diagnosis. Several ancillary 
techniques are recommended in support of GIST diagnosis, including IHC for SDHB, CD117, and DOG1, and molecular genetic testing for KIT 
and PDGFRA mutations, as well as other potential drivers (eg, BRAF, NF1, NTRK, and FGFR  fusions). See GIST-B.
• Diagnosis is based on the Principles of Pathologic Assessment ( NCCN Guidelines for Soft Tissue Sarcoma ); referral to centers with 
expertise and experience in the diagnosis and management of GIST/sarcoma is recommended for those patients with complex or unusual 
histopathologic features.
• Risk stratification: 
Pathologic grading by mitotic rate may not be accurate in small biopsies. Mitotic rate information might be inaccurate following 
neoadjuvant therapy, if there is other evidence of pathologic treatment effect (necrosis, reduced cellularity, etc.). If risk stratification is 
performed on a small biopsy or on a resection specimen following neoadjuvant therapy, there is potential for inaccuracies in the mitotic 
rate. In this situation, risk stratification may need to be based on clinical parameters, size, and anatomic location instead.  
Tumor size and mitotic rate are used to predict the malignant potential of GIST, although it is notoriously difficult to predict the biologic 
behavior of GIST based on pathologic features alone; thus, guidelines for risk stratification by tumor site have been developed. 
Most gastric GIST behave in an indolent manner, especially when less than 2 cm. See Table 1 (GIST-A 2 of 3) for Guidelines for Assessing 
the Malignant Potential.
For non-gastric GIST, see Table 2 (GIST-A 3 of 3) for Guidelines for Assessing the Malignant Potential. 
 ◊GIST of the small intestine tends to be more aggressive than its gastric counterpart. 
 ◊GIST of the colon is most commonly seen in the rectum; colorectal GIST tends to have an aggressive biological behavior, and tumors 
with mitotic activity can recur and metastasize despite a small size of <2 cm.
Some stratification schemes have included tumor rupture, which has been associated with a much higher risk of recurrence.  
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-A
2 OF 3PREDICTORS OF GIST BIOLOGIC RISK
1 Data from Miettinen M, Lasota J. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: pathology and prognosis at different sites. Sem Diag Path 2006;23:70-83. In the original paper, 
percentages referred to the percentage of patients with progressive disease, whereas low, moderate, and high referred to the risk of metastases.
2 The mitotic rate should be measured in the most proliferative area of the tumor, and reported as the number of mitoses per 50 HPF of tissue. Per 50 HPF is a total of 5 
mm2. For most modern microscopes, 20 to 25 HPF 40 x lenses/fields encompasses 5 mm2. Data from Laurini JA. Protocol for the Examination of Resection Specimens 
from Patients with Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (GIST). Version 4.2.0.0, June 2021. Available at: https://documents.cap.org/protocols/Stomach.GIST_4.2.0.0.REL_
CAPCP.pdf. Prognostic contour maps are another source that provides information about risk of recurrence of GIST  after surgery. Joensuu H, Vehtari A, Riihimaki J, et 
al. Risk of recurrence of gastrointestinal stromal tumour after surgery: an analysis of pooled population-based cohorts. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:265-274. Table 1: Gastric GIST: Guidelines for Assessing the Malignant Potential1
• This prognostic assessment applies best to KIT- or PDGFRA-positive GIST, whereas SDH-deficient GIST are more unpredictable. 
• Risk stratification is determined without prior exposure to TKI therapy . 
Tumor Size Mitotic Rate2Risk Risk Per CAP2
≤2 cm≤5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 0% None
>5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate:  0%* None
>2 cm to ≤5 cm≤5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 1.9% Very low (1.9%)
>5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 16% Moderate (16%)
>5 cm to ≤10 cm≤5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 3.6% Low (3.6%)
>5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 55% High (55%)
>10 cm≤5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 12% Moderate (12%) 
>5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 86% High (86%)
CAP: College of American Pathologists; HPFs: High-power fields; *Predicted rate based on  tumor category with very small numbers
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-A 
3 OF 31 Data from Miettinen M, Lasota J. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: pathology and prognosis at different sites. Sem Diag Path 2006;23:70-83. In the original paper, 
percentages referred to the percentage of patients with progressive disease, whereas low, moderate, and high referred to the risk of metastases.
2 The mitotic rate should be measured in the most proliferative area of the tumor, and reported as the number of mitoses per 50 HPF of tissue. Per 50 HPF is a total of 5 
mm2. For most modern microscopes, 20 to 25 HPF 40 x lenses/fields encompasses 5 mm2. Data from Laurini JA. Protocol for the Examination of Resection Specimens 
from Patients with Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (GIST). Version 4.2.0.0, June 2021. Available at: https://documents.cap.org/protocols/Stomach.GIST_4.2.0.0.REL_
CAPCP.pdf. Prognostic contour maps are another source that provides information about risk of recurrence of GIST after surgery. Joensuu H, Vehtari A, Riihimaki J, et al. 
Risk of recurrence of gastrointestinal stromal tumour after surgery: an analysis of pooled population-based cohorts. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:265-274. Table 2: Non-Gastric GIST  (includes small bowel and colorectal GIST): Guidelines for Assessing the Malignant Potential1
• This prognostic assessment applies best to KIT- or PDGFRA-positive GIST whereas SDH-deficient GIST are more unpredictable. For 
anatomic sites not listed in this table, such as esophagus, mesentery , and peritoneum, or in the case of “insufficient data,” it is best  
to use risk criteria for jejunum/ileum.  
• Risk stratification is determined without prior exposure to TKI therapy . 
Tumor Size Mitotic Rate2Risk Risk Per CAP2
≤2 cm≤5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 0% None
>5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 50%–54% Insufficient data - High (54%)
>2 cm to ≤5 cm≤5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 1.9%–8.5% Low (4.3%–8.5%)
>5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 50%–73% High (50%–73%)
>5 cm to ≤10 cm≤5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 24% Insufficient data - Moderate (24%)
>5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 85% Insufficient data - High (85%)
>10 cm≤5 mitoses/50 HPFs  Metastasis rate: 34%–57% High (34%–57%)
>5 mitoses/50 HPFs Metastasis rate: 71%–90% High (71%–90%)
CAP: College of American Pathologists; HPFs: High-power fieldsPREDICTORS OF GIST BIOLOGIC RISKPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-BPRINCIPLES OF MUTATION TESTING
• Approximately 80% of GIST have a mutation in the gene encoding the KIT receptor tyrosine kinase; another 5%–10% of GIST have a mutation in the gene 
encoding the related PDGFRA receptor tyrosine kinase. The presence and type of KIT and PDGFRA mutations are not strongly correlated with prognosis.  
• The mutations in KIT and PDGFRA in GIST result in expression of mutant proteins with constitutive tyrosine kinase activity. Testing for KIT and PDGFRA 
mutations should be performed if TKIs are considered as part of the treatment plan since the presence of mutations (or absence of mutations) in specific regions 
of the KIT and PDGFRA genes are correlated with response (or lack of a response) to specific TKIs.  
• Specific mutations in KIT or PDGFRA show some correlation with tumor phenotype, but mutations are not strongly correlated with the biologic potential of 
individual tumors. The accumulated data show that KIT mutations are not preferentially present in high-grade tumors, and can also be found in small incidental 
tumors as well as tumors that have an indolent course. Similarly, mutational analysis of PDGFRA cannot be used to predict the behavior of individual tumors.  
• GIST have different response rates to imatinib based upon the tumor mutation status: KIT exon 9 mutations have a lower response rate and progression-free 
survival (PFS) than exon 11 tumors at 400 mg, but dosing at 400 mg BID has been associated with better PFS. Most PDGFRA mutations are associated with a 
response to imatinib, with the exception of D842V, which responds to avapritinib and is unlikely to respond to imatinib and most other approved TKIs for GIST.  
• Metastatic disease with acquired drug resistance is usually the result of secondary, imatinib-resistant mutations in KIT or PDGFRA. Sunitinib treatment is 
indicated for patients with imatinib-resistant tumors or imatinib intolerance. Regorafenib is indicated for patients with disease progression on imatinib and 
sunitinib. Ripretinib is indicated for patients who have received prior treatment with 3 or more kinase inhibitors, including imatinib. Ripretinib is also an option 
for GIST with PDGFRA exon 18 mutations that are insensitive to imatinib and were previously treated with both avapritinib and dasatinib. An additional clinical 
benefit may be obtained with the use of ripretinib 150 mg BID upon progression on ripretinib 150 mg daily. Referral to clinical trial is strongly recommended for 
patients with mutations resistant to imatinib, sunitinib, regorafenib, ripretinib, and avapritinib.
• About 10%–15% of GIST lack mutations in KIT or PDGFRA. The vast majority of these GIST have functional inactivation of the SDH complex, which can be 
detected by lack of expression of SDHB on IHC. Inactivation of the SDH complex may result from a mutation or from epigenetic silencing. A small minority of GIST 
with loss of SDH expression have alternative driver mutations.   
• All GIST lacking a KIT or PDGFRA mutation should be tested for SDH deficiency and alternative driver mutations using NGS. 
Alternative driver mutations (eg, BRAF, NF1, NTRK, and FGFR fusions) may be detected by NGS to identify potential targeted therapies. 
Tissue biopsy is preferred; novel approaches (eg, circulating tumor DNA [ctDNA]) may be appropriate in select cases. 
If a molecular profile has been completed that is negative for mutations, consider consulting the laboratory that performed the test or an expert in molecular 
testing (pathologist, medical geneticist, etc) to ensure the ordered test is able to detect all molecular aberrations of interest. If not, re-testing to include 
appropriate tests is required.  
 
• GIST with SDH mutations typically arise in the stomach in younger individuals, frequently metastasize, may involve lymph nodes, and usually grow slowly. They 
are usually resistant to imatinib. SDH-deficient tumors may benefit from therapy with sunitinib or regorafenib. Referral to a genetic counselor for germline testing 
assessment is recommended for all patients with SDH-deficient GIST and those with GIST that have SDH mutations. Patients with SDH germline mutations are at 
risk of paraganglioma; 24-hour urine testing is recommended prior to surgery (GIST-C).
• NF1-associated GIST typically arise in the small bowel, may be multifocal, and often have an indolent biology. They should be tested for classic mutations in KIT 
and PDGFRA because they may contain those as well. Patients who have an NF1-associated GIST should be referred for genetic counseling if they have not been 
evaluated previously. Data supporting the use of TKI for NF1-associated GIST in the absence of a KIT or PDGFRA mutation are limited. Participation in a clinical 
trial can be considered.  
• Germline KIT and PDGFRA testing should be considered for the following: patients with a family history of GIST and/or melanoma, patients with multifocal GIST, 
and/or patients with NF1 or SDH-deficient GIST. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-CGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY
Primary (Resectable) GIST
The surgical procedure performed should aim to resect the tumor with histologically negative margins.
• Given the limited intramural extension, extended anatomic resections (such as total gastrectomy) are rarely indicated. Segmental or wedge resection to obtain negative 
margins is often appropriate.
• Lymphadenectomy is usually not required given the low incidence of nodal metastases; however, resection of pathologically enlarged nodes should be considered in 
patients with known SDH-deficient GIST or known translocation-associated GIST . 
• As GIST tends to be very fragile, every effort should be made not to violate the pseudocapsule of the tumor (ie, avoid tumor rupture—any tumor spillage or fracture, 
laceration of the tumor capsule with or without macroscopic spillage, and piecemeal resection).
• Incisional biopsy occurring either before or at the time of the operation should be strictly avoided.
• Re-resection is generally not indicated for microscopically positive margins (R1) on final pathology .
Resection should be accomplished with minimal morbidity and, in general, complex multivisceral resection should be avoided. If the surgeon feels that a multivisceral 
resection may be required, then multidisciplinary consultation is indicated regarding a course of preoperative therapy (ie, imatinib or avapritinib). Similarly , rectal GIST 
should be approached via a sphincter-sparing approach. If abdominoperineal resection (APR) would be necessary to achieve a negative margin resection, then preoperative 
imatinib should be considered.
A minimally invasive approach may be considered for select GIST in favorable anatomic locations by surgeons with appropriate minimally invasive experience. 
• All oncologic principles of GIST resection must still be followed, including preservation of the pseudocapsule and avoidance of tumor spillage.
• Resection specimens should be removed from the abdomen in a plastic bag to prevent spillage or seeding of port sites. 
Unresectable GIST
Molecularly guided therapy is the primary treatment for unresectable GIST; see Principles of Systemic Therapy (GIST-E). Surgery may be indicated for:
• Previously unresectable tumors after a favorable response to systemic therapy.
• Management of symptomatic bleeding, obstruction, or perforation.
Metastatic GIST
Molecularly guided therapy is the primary therapy for metastatic GIST. Surgery (peritoneal cytoreduction and/or liver metastasectomy) may be indicated in the following 
order:
• Stage IV disease after a favorable response to systemic therapy when complete cytoreduction of peritoneal and/or hepatic disease can be accomplished by an experienced 
surgeon
• Unifocal progression of disease that is refractory to TKI therapy when other sites of disease are having a favorable response to therapy
• Low-volume multifocal progressive disease that is safely resectable
• Management of symptomatic bleeding, obstruction, or perforation  
Considerations Prior to Surgery  
• Imatinib can be stopped right before surgery and restarted as soon as the patient is able to tolerate oral medications. If other TKIs such as sunitinib, regorafenib, ripretinib, 
or avapritinib are being used, therapy should be stopped at least 1 week prior to surgery and can be restarted based on clinical judgment or recovery from surgery .
• Patients with SDH germline mutations are at risk of paraganglioma; 24-hour urine testing is recommended prior to surgery and therefore serum/urine catecholamine/
metanephrine testing should be performed prior to surgery. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF INTERVENTIONAL ONCOLOGY
GIST-D
1 OF 2 Catheter-Directed Therapies
• Catheter-directed therapies allow minimally invasive treatment of liver disease in select patients, including those unable to tolerate surgical 
resection or lesions not amenable to surgery.
• Intra-arterial therapies produce cell death by inducing ischemia and/or locally delivering cytotoxic agents or radiation to hepatic tumors. 
Specific intra-arterial therapies include transarterial (bland) embolization (T AE), transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), and transarterial 
radioembolization (TARE).
Transarterial Embolization (TAE)
 ◊TAE involves delivery of embolic agents within hepatic arteries supplying liver tumors with the goal of vessel stasis. 
 ◊TAE may be considered for treatment of liver metastases refractory to imatinib or imatinib and sunitinib.1,2
Transarterial Chemoembolization (TACE)
 ◊TACE consists of conventional TACE and drug-eluting bead TACE (DEB-TACE). Conventional TACE involves targeted infusion of 
chemotherapeutic medications in addition to embolic agents and lipiodol into tumoral blood supply while DEB-TACE drug delivery is 
through embolic beads loaded with chemotherapeutic medication.
 ◊TACE can be an effective and a well-tolerated treatment in patients with GIST with liver metastases not responsive to TKIs.3,4
Transarterial Radioembolization (TARE)
 ◊TARE utilizes beta particle emitting microspheres by yttrium-90 decay to induce tumoricidal effects through local brachytherapy. TARE 
can be performed with either glass or resin microspheres. 
 ◊TARE can be a safe and effective treatment option for patients with hepatic metastatic GIST whose disease does not respond to TKIs.5 
• Patient selection
Multidisciplinary discussion can be performed to identify candidates who may benefit from catheter-directed therapies.
Patients whose disease progresses on TKI therapies may be considered for transarterial treatments. 
Unresectable liver-dominant metastases or patients with medical comorbidities prohibiting surgical resection may be considered for 
catheter-directed therapies.
Absolute contraindications to catheter-directed therapies are few, but include:
 ◊Uncorrectable coagulopathy
 ◊Active infection in the planned treatment area
 ◊Decompensated liver failure (relative based on treatment approach)
ContinuedReferences on GIST-D (2 of 2)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF INTERVENTIONAL ONCOLOGY
GIST-D
2 OF 2 Ablation 
• Tumor ablation involves application of thermal or non-thermal therapies to a tumor to achieve cell death. Thermal ablation achieves tissue destruction 
by the induction of extreme hypothermia (cryoablation) or hyperthermia (radiofrequency ablation [RFA], microwave ablation, laser ablation, and high-
intensity focused ultrasound [HIFU]). Non-thermal ablation such as irreversible electroporation (IRE) results in permanent cellular membrane injury.
Ablation modality can be based on tumor size, location, and adjacent critical structures to optimize treatment effect while limiting potential adverse 
events.
Ablation can include the target lesion in addition to a margin of radiologically normal tissue to ensure complete local treatment. 
Adjunct passive and active thermoprotective techniques, such as hydrodissection, may be used to protect adjacent critical structures during 
percutaneous ablation.
• Specific considerations in ablation of metastatic disease
Liver metastases
 ◊Thermal ablation in patients previously treated with TKI is feasible and safe.6,7,8
 ◊Intraoperative ablation may be complementary to surgical resection to obtain complete response in patients with metastatic disease that may 
have otherwise been inoperable.9
• Patient selection
Multidisciplinary discussion can be performed to identify candidates who may benefit from ablative therapies.
Patients whose disease progresses on conventional therapy with TKIs can be considered for ablation.
Unresectable metastases or patients with medical comorbidities prohibiting surgical resection should be considered for image-guided ablation.
Absolute contraindications to image-guided ablation are few, but include:
 ◊Uncorrectable coagulopathy
 ◊Active infection in the planned treatment area
 ◊Inability to displace or protect adjacent critical structures (relative based on risk-benefit discussion)
1 Takaki H, Litchman T, Covey A, et al. Hepatic artery embolization for liver metastasis of gastrointestinal stromal tumor following imatinib and sunitinib therapy. J 
Gastrointest Cancer 2014;45:494-499. 
2 Cao G, Zhu X, Li J, et al. A comparative study between Embosphere(®) and conventional transcatheter arterial chemoembolization for treatment of unresectable liver 
metastasis from GIST. Chin J Cancer Res 2014;26:124-131. 
3 Cao G, Li J, Shen L, Zhu X. Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization for gastrointestinal stromal tumors with liver metastases. World J Gastroenterol 2012;18:6134-
6140. 
4 Kobayashi K, Gupta S, Trent JC, et al. Hepatic artery chemoembolization for 110 gastrointestinal stromal tumors: response, survival, and prognostic factors. Cancer 
2006;107:2833-2841. 
5 Rathmann N, Diehl SJ, Dinter D, et al. Radioembolization in patients with progressive gastrointestinal stromal tumor liver metastases undergoing treatment with 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2015;26:231-238. 
6 Yamanaka T, Takaki H, Nakatsuka A, et al. Radiofrequency ablation for liver metastasis from gastrointestinal stromal tumor. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2013;24:341-346. 
7 Hakimé A, Le Cesne A, Deschamps F, et al. A role for adjuvant RFA in managing hepatic metastases from gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) after treatment with 
targeted systemic therapy using kinase inhibitors. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2014;37:132-139. 
8 Jung J-H, Won HJ, Shin YM, Kim PN. Safety and efficacy of radiofrequency ablation for hepatic metastases from gastrointestinal stromal tumor. J Vasc Interv Radiol 
2015;26:1797-1802. 
9 Yoon IS, Shin JH, Han K, et al. Ultrasound-guided intraoperative radiofrequency ablation and surgical resection for liver metastasis from malignant gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors. Korean J Radiol 2018:19:54-62. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY AGENTS AND REGIMENS FOR GIST
GIST-E
1 OF 4a Although mutational analysis is recommended (other than rare circumstances, family history, etc), it is appropriate to start neoadjuvant imatinib pending confirmation 
of the mutational analysis. Sharma AK, et al. Clin Cancer Res 2021;27:5334-5342.
b Data do not support routine use in GIST without mutation in KIT or with an imatinib-resistant mutation in PDGFRA. ContinuedNeoadjuvant Therapy for Resectable Disease with Significant Morbidity
Preferred Regimens
• Imatinib for KIT or PDGFRA mutations (excluding PDGFRA exon 18 mutations that are insensitive to imatinib, such as D842V)a
• Avapritinib for GIST  with PDGFRA exon 18 mutations that are insensitive to imatinib (including PDGFRA D842V)1,2
Useful in Certain Circumstances
NTRK gene fusion-positive GIST
• Larotrectinib 
• Entrectinib 
• Repotrectinib3 (category 2B) 
SDH-deficient GIST 
• Sunitinib
BRAF V600E mutated GIST
• Dabrafenib + trametinib4
Adjuvant Therapy for Resectable Disease
Preferred Regimen
• Adjuvant imatinibb for patients with significant risk of recurrence, moderate  or high risk (category 1 following complete resection with no 
preoperative imatinib; category 2A following complete resection after preoperative imatinib); see GIST-3. 
References on  
GIST-E (3 of 4)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY AGENTS AND REGIMENS FOR UNRESECTABLE, PROGRESSIVE, OR METASTATIC DISEASE
First-line Therapy Second-line Therapy Third-line Therapy Fourth-line Therapy Additional Options After Progression
on Approved Therapiesc,d
Preferred Regimen
• Imatinibe,5,6 (category 1) for 
sensitive mutations (excluding 
PDGFRA exon 18 mutations 
that are insensitive to imatinib 
such as D842V)Preferred Regimen
• Sunitinibe,11 (category 1)
• For patients intolerant 
of second-line sunitinib, 
consider changing 
to ripretinib 150 mg 
dailyf,12Preferred 
Regimen
• Regorafenibe,14  
(category 1)Preferred Regimen
• Ripretinib 150 
mg dailyf,15 (if 
not previously 
received) 
(category 1) Useful in Certain Circumstances 
• Avapritinibe,1,2,7
• Cabozantinib16 
• Everolimus + TKIg,17
• Nilotinib18,19
• Pazopanib20
• Ponatinibh,21
• Ripretinib dose escalation to 150 mg BID (if  
previously treated with ripretinib 150 mg daily)e,i,22,23
• Sorafenib24-26
Preferred  Regimen
• Avapritinibe,1,2,7 for GIST with 
PDGFRA exon 18 mutations 
that are insensitive to imatinib 
(including PDGFRA D842V)• Dasatinib13 (Other 
recommended regimen)Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Ripretinib 150 mg daily
• Ripretinib dose escalation to 150 mg BID  
(if previously treated with ripretinib 150 mg daily)e,i,22,23
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• NTRK gene fusion-positive 
GIST only
Larotrectinib8 
Entrectinib9 
Repotrectinib3
• SDH-deficient GIST 
Sunitinib
Regorafenib
Pazopanib
Imatinib/binimetinib10 
(category 2B)
• BRAF V600E mutated GIST
Dabrafenib + trametinib4Useful in Certain 
Circumstances
• NTRK gene fusion-
positive GIST only
Repotrectinib3 (if not 
previously given)
References on  
GIST-E (3 of 4) GIST-E
2 OF 4c Therapies based on identification of driver mutations. See GIST-B.
d Regimens are ordered alphabetically and not according to order of preference .
e FDA-approved TKIs for the treatment of GIST.
f Ripretinib is FDA-approved for the treatment of adult patients with advanced GIST 
who have received prior treatment with 3 or more kinase inhibitors, including 
imatinib. g TKIs to be considered for use in combination with everolimus include imatinib, 
sunitinib, or regorafenib.
h Ponatinib demonstrated activity in advanced GIST, particularly in patients with 
KIT exon 11 mutant disease.
i An additional clinical benefit may be obtained with the use of ripretinib 150 mg BID 
upon progression on ripretinib 150 mg daily. ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-E
3 OF 4SYSTEMIC THERAPY AGENTS AND REGIMENS FOR GIST
1 Jones RL, Serrano C, von Mehren M, et al. Avapritinib in unresectable or metastatic PDGFRA D842V-mutant gastrointestinal stromal tumours: Long-
term efficacy and safety data from the NAVIGATOR phase I trial. Eur J Cancer 2021;145:132-142.
2 Heinrich MC, Jones RL, von Mehren M, et al. Avapritinib in advanced PDGFRA D842V-mutant gastrointestinal stromal tumour (NAVIGATOR): a 
multicentre, open-label, phase 1 trial. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:935-946.
3 Solomon BJ, Drilon A, Lin JJ, et al. Repotrectinib in patients (pts) with NTRK fusion-positive (NTRK +) advanced solid tumors, including NSCLC: 
update from the phase 1/2 TRIDENT-1 trial. Ann Oncol 2023;34:S787-S788.
4 Subbiah V, Kreitman RJ, Wainberg ZA, et al. Dabrafenib plus trametinib in BRAFV600E-mutated rare cancers: the phase 2 ROAR trial. Nat Med 
2023;29:1103-1112.
5 Demetri GD, von Mehren M, Blanke CD, et al. Efficacy and safety of imatinib mesylate in advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors. N EngI J Med 
2002;347:472-480.
6 Verweij J, Casali PG, Zalcberg J, et al. Progression-free survival in gastrointestinal stromal tumours with high-dose imatinib: randomized trial. Lancet 
2004;364:1127-1134.
7 Heinrich M, Jones RL, von Mehren M, et al. Clinical response to avapritinib by RECIST  and Choi Criteria in ≥4th line and PDGFRA exon 18 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). Connective Tissue Oncology Society Annual Meeting, Tokyo, Japan, November 15, 2019.
8 Drilon A, Laetsch TW, Kummar S, et al. Efficacy of larotrectinib in TRK fusion-positive cancers in adult and children. N Engl J Med 2018;378:731-739.
9 Doebele RC, Drilon A, Paz-Ares L, et al. Entrectinib in patients with advanced or metastatic NTRK fusion-positive solid tumours: integrated analysis of 
three phase 1–2 trials. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:271-282.
10 Chi P, Qin LX, Camacho N, et al. Phase Ib trial of the combination of imatinib and binimetinib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal 
tumors. Clin Cancer Res 2022;28:1507-1517.
11 Demetri GD, van Oosterom AT, Garrett CR, et al. Efficacy and safety of sunitinib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumour after failure 
of imatinib: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2006;368:1329-1338.  
12 Bauer S, Jones RL, Blay JY, et al. Ripretinib versus sunitinib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumor after treatment with imatinib 
(INTRIGUE): A randomized, open-label, phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:3918-3928.
13 Schuetze SM, Bolejack V, Thomas DG, et al. Association of dasatinib with progression-free survival among patients with advanced gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors resistant to imatinib. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:814-820. 
14 Demetri GD, Reichardt P, Kang YK, et al. Efficacy and safety of regorafenib for advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours after failure of imatinib and 
sunitinib (GRID): an international, multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2013;381:295-302.
15 Blay JY, Serrano C, Heinrich MC, et al. Ripretinib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours (INVICTUS): a double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:923-934.
16 Schöffski P, Mir O, Kasper B, et al. Activity and safety of the multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor cabozantinib in patients with metastatic 
gastrointestinal stromal tumour after treatment with imatinib and sunitinib: European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer phase II trial 
1317 ‘CaboGIST’. Eur J Cancer 2020;134:62-74. 
17 Schöffski P, Reichardt P, Blay JY, et al. A phase I-II study of everolimus (RAD001) in combination with imatinib in patients with imatinib-resistant 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Ann Oncol 2010;21:1990-1998.REFERENCES
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-E
4 OF 4SYSTEMIC THERAPY AGENTS AND REGIMENS FOR GIST
REFERENCES
18 Montemurro M, Schoffski P, Reichardt P, et al. Nilotinib in the treatment of advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours resistant to both imatinib and 
sunitinib. Eur J Cancer 2009;45:2293-2297.
19 Sawaki A, Nishida T, Doi T, et al. Phase 2 study of nilotinib as third-line therapy for patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Cancer 2011;117:4633-
4641.
20 Ganjoo KN, Villalobos VM, Kamaya A, et al. A multicenter phase II study of pazopanib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
(GIST) following failure of at least imatinib and sunitinib. Ann Oncol 2014;25:236-240.
21 George S, von Mehren M, Fletcher JA, et al. Phase II study of ponatinib in advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors: ef ficacy, safety, and impact of 
liquid biopsy and other biomarkers. Clin Cancer Res 2022;28:1268-1276. 
22 Zalcberg JR, Heinrich MC, George S, et al. Clinical benefit of ripretinib dose escalation after disease progression in advanced gastrointestinal stromal 
tumor: an analysis of the INVICTUS study. Oncologist 2021;26:e2053-e2060.
23 George S, Chi P, Heinrich MC, et al. Ripretinib intrapatient dose escalation after disease progression provides clinically meaningful outcomes in 
advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Eur J Cancer 2021;155:236-244.
24 Montemurro M, Gelderblom H, Bitz U, et al. Sorafenib as third- or fourth-line treatment of advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumour and pretreatment 
including both imatinib and sunitinib, and nilotinib: A retrospective analysis. Eur J Cancer 2013;49:1027-1031. 
25 Kindler HL, Campbell NP, Wroblewski K, et al. Sorafenib (SOR) in patients (pts) with imatinib (IM) and sunitinib (SU)-resistant (RES) gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors (GIST): Final results of a University of Chicago Phase II Consortium trial [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 201 1;29(Suppl):Abstract 10009.  
26 Park SH, Ryu MH, Ryoo BY, et al. Sorafenib in patients with metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors who failed two or more prior tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors: a phase II study of Korean gastrointestinal stromal tumors study group. Invest New Drugs 2012;30:2377-2383.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GIST-FPRINCIPLES OF IMAGING
CT is performed with contrast. CT imaging of the chest can be performed with or without contrast, as clinically indicated. MRI is performed 
with and without contrast, unless contraindicated.
Workup
• For very small GIST <2 cm: CT abdomen/pelvis with contrast and/or 
MRI abdomen/pelvis  with and without contrast
• For all other GIST:
CT abdomen/pelvis with contrast and/or MRI abdomen/pelvis  with 
and without contrast
Consider baseline chest imaging (x-ray or CT) for unresectable or 
metastatic disease
Response Assessment
Resectable disease with significant morbidity
• Obtain baseline contrast-enhanced abdomen/pelvis CT and/or MRI
• Consider FDG-PET/CT
Obtain baseline FDG-PET/CT if using FDG-PET/CT during follow-up
FDG-PET/CT, with a non-diagnostic CT, is not a substitute for a 
diagnostic CT
• Imaging to assess response to preoperative TKI
CT abdomen/pelvis with contrast and/or MRI abdomen/pelvis  with 
and without contrast every 8–12 weeks
FDG-PET/CT may give indication of TKI activity after 2–4 weeks of 
therapy when rapid readout of activity is necessary
• Progression may be determined by CT or MRI with clinical 
interpretation; FDG-PET/CT may be used to clarify if CT or MRI is 
ambiguous
• For R2 resection or discovery of metastatic disease
Assess response to postoperative TKI via CT abdomen/pelvis with 
contrast and/or MRI abdomen/pelvis  with and without contrast 
every 8–12 weeks
Definitively unresectable, recurrent, or metastatic disease
• Obtain baseline contrast-enhanced abdomen/pelvis CT and/or MRI
• Consider intermittent chest imaging (x-ray or CT)• Consider FDG-PET/CT
Obtain baseline FDG-PET/CT if using FDG-PET/CT during follow-up
FDG-PET/CT, with a non-diagnostic CT, is not a substitute for a 
diagnostic CT
• Imaging to assess response to TKI
CT abdomen/pelvis with contrast and/or MRI abdomen/pelvis with 
and without contrast every 8–12 weeks after initiating therapy
 ◊In some patients, it may be appropriate to image before 3 
months
• Progression may be determined by CT or MRI with clinical 
interpretation; FDG-PET/CT may be used to clarify if CT or MRI is 
ambiguous
Follow-up
• For completely resected primary disease, perform CT abdomen/
pelvis with contrast and/or MRI abdomen/pelvis with and without 
contrast every 3–6 months for 5 years, then annually. After 10 years, 
surveillance should be individualized.
Less frequent imaging surveillance may be acceptable for low-risk 
tumors. For low-risk tumors, see ( GIST-A)
More frequent imaging surveillance may be required for patients 
with high-risk disease who discontinue TKI therapy
• For incompletely resected disease or discovery of metastatic 
disease during surgery, perform CT and/or MRI every 3–6 months
• Progression may be determined by CT or MRI with clinical 
interpretation; FDG-PET/CT may be used to clarify if CT or MRI is 
ambiguous
• After treatment for progressive disease, reassess therapeutic 
response with CT or MRI
Consider FDG-PET/CT only if CT/MRI results are ambiguousPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
ST-1Used with permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago, Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition 
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing.American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) Staging System for Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor (8th ed, 2017)
AJCC Anatomic Stage/Prognostic Groups
Gastric GIST*
T N MMitotic 
Rate
Stage IA T1 or T2 N0 M0 Low
Stage IB T3 N0 M0 Low
Stage II T1 N0 M0 High
T2 N0 M0 High
T4 N0 M0 Low
Stage IIIA T3 N0 M0 High
Stage IIIB T4 N0 M0 High
Stage IV Any T N1 M0 Any rate
Any T Any N M1 Any rate
Small Intestinal GIST**
T N MMitotic 
Rate
Stage I T1 or T2 N0 M0 Low
Stage II T3 N0 M0 Low
Stage IIIA T1 N0 M0 High
T4 N0 M0 Low
Stage IIIB T2 N0 M0 High
T3 N0 M0 High
T4 N0 M0 High
Stage IV Any T N1 M0 Any rate
Any T Any N M1 Any rate
*Note: Also to be used for omentum.
**Note: Also to be used for esophagus, colorectal, mesenteric, and peritoneal.Definitions for T, N, M
T Primary Tumor
TX Primary tumor cannot be assessed
T0 No evidence of primary tumor
T1 Tumor 2 cm or less
T2 Tumor more than 2 cm but not more than 5 cm
T3 Tumor more than 5 cm but not more than 10 cm
T4 Tumor more than 10 cm in greatest dimension
N Regional Lymph Nodes
N0 No regional lymph node metastasis or unknown lymph 
node status
N1 Regional lymph node metastasis
M Distant Metastasis
M0 No distant metastasis
M1 Distant metastasis
Grading for GIST is dependent on mitotic rate
Low 5 or fewer mitoses per 5 mm2, or per 50 HPF
High Over 5 mitoses per 5 mm2, or per 50 HPFPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
ABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-1
APR abdominoperineal resection
CAP College of American 
Pathologists
ctDNA circulating tumor DNA
DEB-
TACEdrug-eluting bead transarterial 
chemoembolization
EUS-
CNBendoscopic ultrasound-guided 
core needle biopsy
EUS-
FNABendoscopic ultrasound-guided 
fine-needle aspiration biopsy
GIST gastrointestinal stromal tumors
HIFU high-intensity focused 
ultrasound
H&P history and physical
HPF high-power fieldIHC immunohistochemistry
IRE irreversible electroporation
NGS next-generation sequencing
PFS progression-free survival
RFA radiofrequency ablation
SDH succinate dehydrogenase
TACE transarterial chemoembolization
TAE transarterial embolization
TARE transarterial radioembolization
TKI tyrosine kinase inhibitorPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
Version 1.2025, 04/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CAT-1NCCN Categories of Evidence and Consensus
Category 1 Based upon high-level evidence (≥1 randomized phase 3 trials or high-quality , robust meta-analyses), there is 
uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 2A Based upon lower-level evidence, there is uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 2B Based upon lower-level evidence, there is NCCN consensus (≥50%, but <85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 3 Based upon any level of evidence, there is major NCCN disagreement that the intervention is appropriate. 
All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
NCCN Categories of Preference
Preferred interventionInterventions that are based on superior efficacy, safety, and evidence; and, when appropriate, 
affordability.
Other recommended 
interventionOther interventions that may be somewhat less efficacious, more toxic, or based on less mature data; 
or significantly less affordable for similar outcomes.
Useful in certain 
circumstancesOther interventions that may be used for selected patient populations (defined with recommendation).
All recommendations are considered appropriate.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-1 Discussion  
Table of Contents  
Overview  ................................................................................ MS-2 
General Principles  .................................................................. MS-3 
Biopsy and Pathologic Assessment  ................................ ..............  MS-3 
Prognostic Factors  ................................ ................................ ....... MS-4 
Imaging  ................................ ................................ ........................  MS-4 
Surgery  ................................ ................................ ........................  MS-5 
Targeted Therapy  ................................ ................................ ........  MS-6 
Impact of Mutational Status on Tumor Response to First -Line Tyrosine 
Kinase Inhibitors in Patients with Advanced or Metastatic GIST  .. MS-11 
Management of Resistance to Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors  ...........  MS-13 
Initial Evaluation and Workup  ............................................... MS-17 
Treatment Guidelines  ........................................................... MS-17 
Resectable Disease  ................................ ................................ ... MS-17 
Unresectable, Metastatic, or Recurrent Disease .........................  MS-18 
Progressive Disease  ................................ ................................ .. MS-19 
Continuation of TKI Therapy  ................................ .......................  MS-20 
Surveillance  ................................ ................................ ...............  MS-20 
References  ........................................................................... MS-21 
 
 
 
   This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (GIST). The following pages were updated on 
September 1, 2022: MS -2 & MS- 11 to MS -16. The remaining sections were updated on March 27, 2018.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-2 Overview 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (G IST) are the most common STS of the 
GI tract, resulting primarily  from KIT or PDGFRA  activating mutations.1 
The annual incidence of GIST in the United States is estimated to be 
between 0.68 to 0.78 per 100,000.2-5 GIST can arise anywhere along the 
GI tract, but stomach (60%) and small intestine (30%) are the most 
common primary sites.6 Duodenum (4% –5%) and rectum (4%) are less 
common primary sites, and only a small number of cases have been reported in the esophagus (<1%) and colon and appendix (1% –2%).
6 In 
very rare occasions, GIST can occur in extraintestinal sites. Patients with 
a suspected GIST may present with a variety of symptoms, which may 
include early satiety, abdominal discomfort due to pain or swelling, 
intraperitoneal hemorrhage, GI bleeding, or fatigue related to anemia. 
Some patients may present with an acute abdomen (as a result of tumor rupture, GI obstruction, or peritonitis -like pain), which requires immediate 
medical attention. Liver and/or the peritoneal surfaces  are the most 
common sites of metastases, whereas l ymph node metastases are 
extremely rare , except in select GIST subtypes . Metastases in the lungs, 
bone,  and other extra -abdominal locations are observed only in advanced 
cases. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-3 General Principles  
Biopsy and Pathologic Assessment  
GIST are soft and fragile tumors. The decision to obtain a biopsy should 
be based on the suspected tumor type and the extent of disease. Biopsy is 
necessary to confirm the diagnosis of primary GIST prior to the initiation of 
preoperative therapy.7 Recent reports have suggested that definitive 
diagnosis of GIST requires tissue acquisition via endoscopic ultrasound 
(EUS) -guided FNA.8 EUS-guided FNA (EUS -FNA) biopsy of primary site is 
preferred over percutaneous biopsy due to the risk of tumor hemorrhage and intra -abdominal tumor dissemination. Percutaneous image -guided 
biopsy may be appropriate for confirmation of metastatic disease.  
Morphologic diagnosis based on careful microscopic examination of 
adequate tumor tissue is essential to confirm the diagnosis of GIST. 
Pathology report should include anatomic location, size, and an accurate 
assessment of the mitotic rate measured in the m ost proliferative area of 
the tumor and reported as the number of mitoses in 50 high- power fields 
(HPFs) (equivalent to 5 mm
2 of tissue). The differential diagnosis of GIST 
should be considered for any GI sarcoma, as well as for any other 
intra-abdominal s arcoma. The panel recommends referral to centers with 
expertise in sarcomas for cases with complex or unusual histopathologic 
features.  
Most GIST (95%) express KIT (CD117). Approximately 80% of GIST have 
a mutation in the gene encoding the KIT  receptor tyrosine kinase; another 
5% to 10% of GIST have a mutation in the gene encoding the related PDGFRA  receptor tyrosine kinase.
9-11 About 10% to 15% of GIST have no 
detectable KIT or PDGFRA  mutations (wild -type GIST). Other commonly 
expressed markers include CD34 antigen (70%), smooth muscle actin 
(25%), and desmin (less than 5%).12 Most of the KIT  mutations occur in the juxtamembrane domain encoded by 
KIT exon 11 and some are detected in the extracellular domain encoded 
by exon 9.13 KIT mutations have also been identified in the tyrosine kinase 
domain (exon 13 and exon 17), although they are very rare.14 The majority 
of the PDGFRA  mutations affect exon 18 in the tyrosine kinase domain 
2.13 Few mutations also occur in exon 12 (juxtamembrane domain) and 
exon 14 (tyrosine kinase domain 1), although they are rare.15 KIT exon 11 
mutations are most common in GIST of all sites, whereas KIT  exon 9 
mutations are specific for intestinal GIST and PDGFRA  exon 18 mutations 
are common in gastric GIST.13  
Immunohistochemical staining for CD117, DOG1, and/or CD34 and 
molecular genetic testing to identify KIT  and/or PDGFRA  mutations are 
useful in the diagnosis of GIST. However, KIT  positivity alone may not be 
sufficient to confirm the diagnosis and, conversely, the absence of KIT 
and/or PDFGRA mutations does not exclude the diagnosis of GIST. In 
GIST with PDGFRA  mutations, immunostaining with PDGFRA  has been 
shown to be helpful in discriminating between KIT-negative GIST and 
other GI mesenchymal lesions.  
Loss -of-function mutations in the SDH gene subunits or loss of SDHB 
protein expression by IHC have been identified in a majority of wild- type 
GIST lacking KIT and PDGFRA  mutations; these findings have led to the 
use of the term SDH -deficient GIST, which is preferred over the older 
term, wild -type GIST, for this subset of GIST.16-20 SDHB IHC can be useful 
for the diagnosis of SDH- deficient GIST. BRAF exon 15 mutation (V600E)  
has also been reported in a small subset of patients with intestinal 
high- risk GIST lacking KIT/PDGFRA  mutations.21,22 DOG1 is a calcium -
dependent, receptor -activated chloride channel protein and it is expressed 
in GIST independent of mutation type. DOG1 expression was not different 
between the KIT/PDGFRA  mutant or wild -type GIST, but there was a clear 
distinction between tumors with PDGFRA  and KIT mutations. GIST with PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-4 PDGFRA  mutations had a low KIT  expression and high DOG1 expression, 
which can be used in the diagnosis of KIT -negative tumors.23 DOG1 
immunostaining may be useful for cases that cannot be categorized as 
GIST based on CD117 immunostaining and mutation testing for KIT  and 
PDGFRA . DOG1 and KIT  could be used together in difficult cases 
exhibiting unexpected KIT  negativity or positivity.7 
Tumors lacking KIT and PDGFRA  mutations should be considered for 
further evaluations such as SDHB immunostaining. If the tumor is SDH -
deficient, germline testing for SDH  mutations would be indicated. 
Inactivating NF1 mutations or activating BRAF  mutations are present in a 
small minority of tumors that lack KIT and PDGFRA  mutations but retain 
SDH expression.  
Prognostic Factors  
Tumor size and the mitotic rate are the most widely used pathologic features for the risk stratification of GIST. However, it is difficult to predict 
the malignant potential of GIST based on these features alone. In a 
long- term follow -up of 1765 patients w ith gastric GIST, Miettinen and 
colleagues reported that the metastatic rate was 86% for tumors >10 cm 
with a mitotic index of >5 mitoses/50 HPFs, whereas tumors of the same 
size with a mitotic index of <5 mitoses/50 HPFs have a relatively low 
metastatic r ate of 11%.
24 In a subsequent report involving 906 patients 
with small intestinal GIST, tumors >10 cm with a mitotic index of ≤5 
mitoses/50 HPF had a metastatic rate of 50%, which is a contrast to that 
reported for gastric GIST with similar tumor parameters.25 Therefore, in 
addition to the tumor size and mitotic rate, tumor site has also been included in the guidelines developed by Miettinen and colleagues for the 
risk stratification of primary GIST.
6 According to these guidelines, gastric 
GIST have an overall indolent behavior and those that are ≤2 cm (irrespective of the mitotic index) are essentially benign, whereas small 
intestinal GIST tend to be more aggressive. Rectal GIST are also very aggressive, and tumors <2 cm with a mitotic index of >5 mitoses/50 HPFs have a higher risk of recurrence and malignant potential.  
Mutations can be found in high- grade tumors as well as in small incidental 
GIST and tumors that have a benign course. Therefore, KIT  mutational 
status is not used to determine the malignant potential of a primary GIST. Tumor genotype has been shown to be an independent prognostic factor 
based on review of 1056 patients with localized GIST in the ConticaGIST 
database. Factors associated with poorer DFS were KIT  exon 9 
duplication, KIT exon 11 deletions, nongastric site, larger tumor size, and 
high mitotic in dex, whereas  PDGFRA  exon 18 mutations were associated 
with better prognosis.26 Long- term follow- up (median 73 months) from the 
BFR14 trial by the French Sarcoma Group identified female sex as an 
independent prognostic factor for higher PFS and OS in patients treated 
with standard- dose imatinib.27  
The presence and the type of KIT  or PDGFRA  mutation status are 
predictive of response to TKI therapy in patients with advanced or metastatic GIST. GIST with SDH mutations are also less sensitive to TKIs. 
They typically arise in the stomach and are observed in younger individuals, frequently metastasize, may feature lymph node involvement, 
and tend to grow slowly. See Impact of Mutational Status on Response to 
Imatinib or Sunitinib in Patients with Advanced or Metastatic GIST in this 
Discussion. 
Imaging  
In patients with GIST, imaging is used for diagnosis, initial staging, 
restaging, monitoring response to therapy, and performing follow -up 
surveillance of possible recurrence. Contrast -enhanced CT is the imaging 
modality of choice to characterize an abdominal mass, as well as to 
evaluate its extent and the presence or absence of metastasis at the initial 
staging workup for biopsy -proven GIST. PET helps to differentiate active PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-5 tumor from necrotic or inactive scar tissue, malignant from benign tissue, 
and recurrent tumor from nondescript benign changes. PET provides 
significant value to the standard CT images, because changes in the 
metabolic activity of tumors often precede anat omic changes on CT. 
However, PET is not a substitute for CT. PET/CT may be used to clarify ambiguous findings seen on CT or MRI or to assess complex metastatic 
disease in patients who are being considered for surgery. Even in this 
clinical setting there is  no clear evidence that PET provides significant 
information that cannot be obtained using IV contrast -enhanced CT. PET 
may be of benefit in patients with IV contrast allergy, particularly for 
peritoneal disease; MRI with or without contrast usually yields  excellent 
anatomical definition of liver metastases.
7 If clinicians consider using PET 
to monitor therapy, a baseline PET should be obtained prior to the start of 
therapy.  
Response Assessment  
To assess response to TKI therapy, abdominal/pelvic CT or MRI is 
indicated every 8 to 12 weeks. PET may give an indication of imatinib 
activity after 2 to 4 weeks if rapid read- out is necessary.28 Various CT 
response criteria have been investigated and compared in patients with 
GIST, including iterations of RECIST, Choi, and WHO criteria. 29-35  
Experts have advocated that the CT response criteria proposed by Choi 
are much better than RECIST criteria to assess the response of GIST to 
TKI therapy. Choi criteria have been validated in one center in patients 
with GIST who had not previously received TKI therapy.29 However, these 
criteria are not universally accepted, they have not been validated for 
patients who have received several targeted therapies, and the ease of 
use outside specialized centers is unknown. Some recent studies have 
supported the use of RECIST,  WHO, or volumetric criteria for sunitinib or 
regorafenib response assessment following progression on imatinib.32-34  The EORTC developed metabolic response criteria for tumors evaluated 
with PET that provide definitions for complete metabolic response, partial metabolic response, stable metabolic disease, or disease metabolic 
progression.
36 However, since there is a 95% correlation between the 
information from regular contrast -enhanced CT and PET/CT, CT with IV 
contrast is the preferred routine imaging modality for patients with GIST on 
TKI therapy.  
Surgery  
Surgery is the primary treatment of choice for patients with localized or potentially resectable GIST lesions. Preoperative imatinib can be 
considered to decrease surgical morbidity. If persistent metastatic or 
residual tumor remains after surgery, then im atinib should be continued as 
soon as the patient is able to tolerate oral intake.  
GIST are fragile and should be handled with care to avoid tumor rupture. 
The goal is to achieve complete gross resection of the tumor with an intact 
pseudocapsule. After removal of any suspected GIST, postoperative 
pathology assessment is essential to conf irm the diagnosis. Segmented or 
wedge resection to obtain negative margins is often appropriate. 
Lymphadenectomy is usually not required given the low incidences of 
nodal metastases, but resection of pathologically enlarged nodes should 
be considered in patients with SDH- deficient GIST. Resection should be 
accomplished with minimal morbidity and complex multivisceral resection should be avoided. Re- resection is generally not indicated for 
microscopically positive margins on final pathology. If abdominoperineal resection w ould be necessary to achieve a negative margin, then 
preoperative imatinib should be considered. If the surgeon feels that a complex surgical procedure is required, then a multidisciplinary 
consultation regarding the use of preoperative imat inib is recommended.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-6 Sphincter -sparing surgery and esophagus -sparing surgery should be 
considered for rectal and gastroesophageal junction GIST, respectively. 
Several case reports have demonstrated that the use of preoperative 
imatinib enables organ- sparing surgery and improves surgical outcomes in 
patients with rectal GIST.7 
The role for laparoscopy in the resection of GIST continues to expand. 
Although prospective studies are lacking, literature reports based on a 
small series of patients and retrospective analyses have demonstrated 
that not only are laparoscopic or laparoscopic -assisted resections 
possible, but they are also associated with low recurrence rates, short hospital stay duration, and low morbidity.
7 A meta -analysis of 19 studies (n 
= 1060 GIST cases) revealed no difference in long- term outcomes of GIST 
resections using laparotomy and laparoscopy, but laparoscopic 
approaches were associated with less blood loss, lower complication 
rates, and shorter hospital stays.37 
Laparoscopic approach may be considered for selected GIST in favorable 
anatomic locations such as anterior wall of the stomach, jejunum, and 
ileum. The same surgical principles of complete macroscopic resection, 
including the preservation of the pseudocaps ule and avoidance of tumor 
rupture, should be followed during laparoscopy. Resection specimen should be removed from the abdomen in a plastic bag to avoid spillage or 
seeding of port sites. Laparoscopic surgery could be feasible in other 
anatomic sites, such as smaller rectal GIST. However, data on 
laparoscopic resection of GIST at other sites are limited.  
Targeted Therapy  
GIST have previously been documented to be resistant to conventional 
chemotherapies. Since KIT  activation occurs in the majority of cases of 
GIST, KIT inhibition has emerged as the primary therapeutic modality along with surgery for the treatment of GIST.  Imatinib  
Imatinib, a selective inhibitor of the KIT protein tyrosine kinase, has 
produced durable clinical benefit and objective responses in most patients 
with GIST. In phase II and III studies, imatinib has resulted in high overall 
response rates and exceptionally good PFS in patients with unresectable 
and/or metastatic GIST, inducing objective responses in more than 50% of 
the patients.38-42 In February 2002, the FDA approved use of imatinib for 
the treatment of patients with KIT-positive unresectable and/or metastatic 
malignant GIST. Long -term follow- up results of the B2222 study (n = 147, 
randomly assigned to receive 400 or 600 mg of imatinib daily) confirmed that imatinib induces durable disease control in patients with advanced 
GIST.
43 The estimated 9- year OS rate was 35% for all patients, 38% for 
those with CR or PR, and 49% for those with stable disease. Low tumor bulk at baseline predicted for longer TTP and improved OS.  
Two separate phase III studies (EORTC 62005 study and the 
S0033/CALGB 150105 study) have assessed the efficacy of imatinib at 
two initial dose levels (400 mg daily vs. 800 mg daily, given as 400 mg 
twice a day) in patients with metastatic or unresectable G IST.
39,40,42 Both 
studies showed equivalent response rates and OS for both dose levels. Higher dose of imatinib was associated with more side effects than the 
lower dose in both studies. Although initial findings from the EORTC 
62005 study (n = 946) suggested an earli er TTP for patients receiving 400 
mg daily,
39 at a median follow -up of 10.9 years, no significant differences 
in survival were observed based on imatinib dose level.44 In the 400 -mg 
daily vs. 800 -mg daily cohort, 10 -year PFS rates were 9.5% versus 9.2% 
(HR, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.79 –1.04; P = .18) and 10 -year OS rates were 19.4% 
and 21.5%, respectively (HR, 0.93; 95% CI, 0.80 –1.07; P = .31). Similarly, 
the S0033/CALGB 150105 study (n = 746) reported identical response 
rates (40% vs. 42%, respectively) at a median follow -up of 4.5 years and 
there were no statistical differences in PFS (18 months for low -dose arm 
vs. 40 months for highe r-dose arm) and median OS (55 and 51 months,  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-7 respectively).42 Following progression on 400 mg daily, 33% of patients 
who crossed over to the higher dose achieved objective response rates 
and stable disease. Among the patients who crossed over to the 800 -mg 
daily dose after progression in EORTC 62005 study (n= 196, 47%), 
median PFS was 2.76 months.44 
Available data confirm the safety and efficacy of imatinib at 400 mg/d as 
the initial standard dose to achieve response induction.39,42 Dose 
escalation to 800 mg/d is a reasonable option for patients progressing on 
400 mg/d.40   
Preoperative Imatinib  
The RTOG 0132/ACRIN 6665 is the first prospective study that evaluated the efficacy of preoperative imatinib (600 mg/d) in patients with potentially 
resectable primary disease (30 patients) or potentially resectable recurrent 
or metastatic disease (22 pati ents).
45 Among patients with primary GIST, 
PR and stable disease were observed in 7% and 83% of patients, 
respectively. In patients with recurrent or metastatic GIST, PR and stable 
disease were observed in 4.5% and 91% of patients, respectively. The 
estimated 2 -year OS rate was 93% and 91% for patients with primary 
GIST and those with recurrent or metastatic GIST, respectively. The estimated 2 -year PFS rate was 83% and 77%, respectively.  
In a study conducted at MD Anderson Cancer Center, 19 patients undergoing surgical resection for primary GIST (with or without 
metastases) or recurrent disease (local or metastatic) were randomized to 
receive 3, 5, or 7 days of preoperative imatinib (600 m g daily).
46 The 
response rate assessed by FDG -PET and dynamic CT was 69% and 71%, 
respectively. Median DFS of patients treated with surgery and imatinib 
was 46 months. Tumor size was a predictor of recurrence after 
postoperative imatinib. However, in this study, ther e was no histologic 
evidence of cytoreduction within 3 to 7 days of preoperative imatinib.  In another prospective study, Fiore and colleagues reported that preoperative imatinib improved resectability and reduced surgical 
morbidity in patients with primary GIST, unresectable or resectable 
through a major surgical procedure with significant surgi cal morbidity. 
Median size reduction was 34% and the estimated 3- year PFS rate was 
77%.
47 Imatinib was continued postoperatively for 2 years in all patients.  
In the subgroup analysis of patients with non -metastatic, locally advanced, 
primary GIST treated with imatinib within the prospective BFR14 phase III 
study, preoperative imatinib was associated with a PR rate of 60% (15 of 
25 patients), and 36% (9 of 25 pa tients) of patients underwent surgical 
resection of primary tumor after a median of 7.3 months of imatinib treatment.
48 All patients who underwent resection were treated with 
postoperative imatinib. The 3- year PFS and OS rates were 67% and 89%, 
respectively, for patients who underwent resection.  All patients who 
underwent resection were treated with postoperative imatinib.  
While the results of these prospective studies have demonstrated the 
safety and efficacy of preoperative imatinib in patients undergoing surgical 
resection, survival benefit could not be determined since all patients 
included in 3 of these studies also rec eived postoperative imatinib 
postoperatively for 2 years.45,46,48 Maximal response may require treatment 
for ≥6 months. Preoperative imatinib may prohibit accurate assessment of 
recurrence risk and should be considered only if surgical morbidity could be reduced by downstaging the tumor preoperatively. At the present time, 
the decision to use preoperative imatinib for patients with resectable 
primary or locally advanced or recurrent GIST should be made on an individual basis.  
Postoperative Imatinib  
Surgery does not routinely cure GIST. Complete resection is possible in 
approximately 85% of patients with primary tumors. At least 50% of these 
patients will develop recurrence or metastasis following complete PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-8 resection and the 5 -year survival rate is about 50%.49-51 Median time to 
recurrence after resection of primary high- risk GIST is about 2 years. A 
retrospective review of 506 patients with completely resected GIST 
revealed the potential for underestimating risk of recurrence, particularly in 
the case of  intermedi ate size, intermediate- level mitotic count, and non -
gastric tumors.52 The data suggested that at least 3 years of adjuvant 
treatment was associated with higher RFS for patients with higher -risk 
disease. Multiple randomized studies have investigated the optimal 
duration of adjuvant therapy for resected GIST.  
Imatinib therapy was investigated in a phase III, double- blind study 
(ACOSOG Z9001) that randomized patients with primary localized GIST 
(≥3 cm in size) to postoperative imatinib 400 mg (317 patients) or placebo 
(328 patients) for one year after complete resection.53 At a median 
follow- up of 74 months, the RFS rate was significantly higher in the 
imatinib arm compared to placebo (HR, 0.6; 95% CI, 0.43 –0.75; Cox 
model adjusted  P < .001). OS was not significantly different between the 
imatinib and placebo arms.54 Further analyses revealed that imatinib 
therapy was associated with higher RFS in patients with  KIT exon 11 
deletions (but not KIT  exon 11 insertion or point mutation,  KIT exon 9 
mutation,  PDGFRA  mutation, or wild -type tumor). Tumor genotype was 
not associated with RFS in the placebo arm.  
An intergroup randomized trial (EORTC -62024: NCT00103168) compared 
observation with 2 years of adjuvant imatinib following R0/R1 resection in 
908 patients with localized, intermediate, or high- risk GIST.  55 RFS for 
imatinib versus observation was 84% versus 66% at 3 years and 69% 
versus 63% at 5 years ( P < .001). However, the endpoint of 5- year 
imatinib failure -free survival (IFFS) did not reach significance at 87% 
versus 84% (HR, 0.79; 98.5% CI, 0.50– 1.25; P = .21).   
The results of another randomized phase III study from the Scandinavian 
Sarcoma Group (SSG XVIII/AIO) suggest that a longer duration of postoperative imatinib improves RFS and OS for patients with a high estimated risk of recurrence after surgery.
56,57 In this study, patients with a 
high risk for GIST recurrence after surgery were randomized to 12 months 
(n = 200) or 36 months (n = 200) of postoperative imatinib. After a median 
follow- up of 90 months, RFS and OS were significantly longer in the 
36-month  group compared to the 12- month group (5 -year RFS: 71.1% vs. 
52.3%, respectively; P < .001; 5- year OS: 91.9 % vs. 85.3% respectively; 
P = .036). The highest risk for recurrence was observed among patients 
with non- gastric GIST and tumors with high mitotic count.58  
Management of Toxicities  
The most common side effects of imatinib include fluid retention, diarrhea, 
nausea, fatigue, muscle cramps, abdominal pain, and rash. The side effect 
profile may improve with prolonged therapy.59 Serious side effects (such 
as liver function test [LFT] abnormalities, lung toxicity, low blood counts, 
and GI bleeding) have rarely been reported and often improve after 
imatinib has been withheld. LFT abnormalities are seen in fewer than 5% 
of patients.  Leukopenia is quite rare and imatinib has only rarely been 
associated with neutropenic fever. In a retrospective analysis of 219 
consecutive patients treated with imatinib, grade 3 or 4 cardiotoxicity 
occurred in 8.2% of patients who were manageable with medical therapy, 
and infrequently required dose reduction or discontinuation of imatinib.60 
The side effect profile may improve with prolonged therapy and can be 
managed with appropriate supportive care measures. If life -threatening 
side effects occur with imatinib that cannot be managed by maximum 
supportive treatment, then sunitinib should be considered after 
discontinuing imatinib.  
Sunitinib  
Sunitinib is a multitargeted TKI that can induce objective responses and 
control progressive disease in patients with imatinib- resistant GIST. SDH -
deficient GIST may have a higher probability of response to sunitinib.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-9 In a randomized, phase III, placebo- controlled study, sunitinib produced 
significant, sustained clinical benefit in patients with imatinib- resistant or 
imatinib -intolerant GIST.61 In patients with imatinib -resistant GIST, 
sunitinib resulted in a significant improvement in median time to 
progression (27.3 vs. 6.4 weeks) and significantly greater estimated OS. 
Sunitinib treatment induced PR in 14 patients (6.8%) and stable disease 
(≥22 weeks) in 36 patients (17.4%) versus no PRs and stable disease in 2 
patients (1.9%) on placebo. In the imatinib- intolerant group, 4 out of 9 
patients randomized to sunitinib achieved PR and one patient had 
progressive disease. In contrast, 3 of the 4 patients randomized to placebo 
had progressive disease at the time of analysis and no PR was observed. 
Sunitinib was generally well tolerated. In January 2006, sunitinib received 
FDA approval for the treatment of GIST after disease progression on or 
intolerance to imatinib.  
The safety and efficacy of sunitinib on a continuous daily dosing schedule at 37.5 mg was evaluated in an open -label, multicenter, randomized phase 
II study
 in patients with advanced GIST after imatinib failure.62 Patients 
were randomized (1:1) to receive continuous daily sunitinib (37.5 mg/d) either in the morning or in the evening for 28 days (one cycle). The 
primary endpoint was the clinical benefit rate (CBR) defined as the 
percentage of patients with CRs, PRs,  or stable disease for 24 weeks or 
more based on RECIST criteria. The overall CBR was 53% (13% of patients had a PR and 40% had stable disease). Median PFS and OS 
were 34 weeks and 107 weeks, respectively. The most commonly 
reported treatment -related adverse events (diarrhea, fatigue, and nausea) 
were consistent with those known to be associated with sunitinib intermittent dosing. Treatment -related hypertension and hypothyroidism 
(experienced by 28% and 12% of patients, respectively) were successfully managed with appropriate supportive care measures. Both of these 
adverse events have also been associated with the long- term use of 
sunitinib on intermittent dosing. The results of this study suggest that continuous daily dosing appears to be an effective alternative dosing 
strategy with acceptable safety for patients with 
imatinib -resistant/ -intolerant GIST.  
Results were recently reported from an international study of sunitinib safety and efficacy in patients with imatinib- resistant/ -intolerant advanced 
GIST (n = 1124).63 The median PFS was 8.3 months (95% CI, 8.0–9.4 
months) and the median OS was 16.6 months (95% CI, 14.9– 18.0 
months); safety findings were in line with previous studies. In a follow -up 
retrospective analysis of a subset of this trial population (n = 230), P FS 
was significantly better for patients with a primary mutation in KIT  exon 9 
compared to those with a primary mutation in exon 11 (12.3 months vs. 7 
months; HR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.39– 0.89; P = .011).64 
Management of Toxicities  
Sunitinib -related toxicities can often be managed with dose interruptions or 
reductions. Fatigue, nausea, and vomiting were dose- limiting toxicities for 
sunitinib in clinical trials. Other common toxicities include hematologic toxicities (ie, anemia, neutropenia), diarrhea, abdominal pain, mucositis, 
anorexia, and skin discoloration. Sunitinib is associated with a significant 
risk of developing hand -foot skin reaction (HFSR).
65 Early detection and 
proper management of HFSR is vital during treatment with sunitinib. HFSR can be prevented with routine application of emollient lotions. If it is 
significant, interruption of therapy is indicated; if it is severe, dose 
reduction should be considered.  
Hypertension is a common side effect reported in clinical trials, since 
sunitinib targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR). 
However, the risk is higher in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
compared to those with non- RCC.
66 Recent reports have shown that 
sunitinib is also associated with cardiotoxicity and hypothyroidism.67,68 In a 
retrospective analysis of the data from phase I -II studies, 11% of patients 
had an adverse cardiovascular event including CHF in 8% of patients and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-10 absolute reduction in the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in 28% of 
patients.67 In a prospective, observational cohort study, abnormal serum 
thyroid- stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations were documented in 
62% of patients and the risk for hypothyroidism increased with the duration 
of therapy.68  
Close monitoring for hypertension and LVEF is essential in patients receiving sunitinib, especially in patients with a history of heart disease or 
cardiac risk factors. Routine monitoring (every 3– 6 months) of TSH is 
indicated. If hypothyroidism is suggested, patients should receive thyroid 
hormone replacement therapy. Patients should monitor their blood 
pressure closely and those who experience an increase in blood pressure 
should be treated with antihypertensives.
7 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-11 Impact of Mutational Status on Tumor Response to First -Line 
Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors in Patients with Advanced or Metastatic 
GIST  
GIST are generally more resistant to traditional systemic 
chemotherapeutic agents  and radiation therapy  (RT) than other STS 
subtypes; therefore, treatment options for patients with advanced or 
metastatic GIST were historically limited.69 The discovery that many 
GIST are driven by constitutively activated KIT or PDGFRA receptor 
tyrosine kinases was a significant breakthrough, enabling GIST to be 
managed  with targeted therapies. TKIs have now emerged as the 
standard- of-care treatment  for patients with advanced or metastatic GIST 
(GIST -4 and GIST -D 1 of 2 ). Imatinib, the first TKI approved for the 
treatment of patients with GIST, is clinically active against many GIST in 
the first -line setting.44,70 However, not all GIST are responsive to imatinib, 
as tumor response is primarily dependent on tumor mutational status.  
GIST with KIT or PDGFRA Mutations  
Imatinib -Sensitive Mutations  
Up to ~ 80% of GIST have a KIT mutation, while 5% –10% have a 
PDGFRA mutation.15,71- 73 The presence and type of KIT or PDGFRA  
mutations are not strongly correlated with prognosis. However, the 
presence (or absence) of mutations in specific regions of KIT and 
PDGFRA  genes are associated with a response to specific TKIs.   
In randomized trials evaluating imatinib  in the advanced disease setting , 
the presence of a KIT exon 11 mutation was associated with better 
response rates, median progression- free survival ( PFS), and median 
overall survival ( OS) than KIT exon 9 mutations or non-mutated KIT or 
PDGFRA .27,70,73- 75 Long- term follow- up (median 73 months) from the 
randomized, phase III BFR14 trial by the French Sarcoma Group 
identified KIT exon 11 mutations as an independent prognostic factor for 
longer  PFS and OS in patients treated with standard -dose imatinib when compared with  KIT exon 9 mutations  or non -mutated  KIT.27 In the 
US-Finnish B2222 phase II study, imatinib was associated with better 
outcomes for patients with KIT exon 11 mutations than those with KIT 
exon 9 mutations or who had no detectable kinase mutations.70 The 
partial response ( PR) rates for patients with KIT exon 11 mutations, KIT 
exon 9 mutations, or no detectable kinase mutations were 83.5%, 47. 8%, 
and 0%, respectively. The presence of KIT exon 11 mutations was the 
strongest prognostic factor reducing the risk of death by more than 95%.  
GIST with KIT exon 9 mutations treated with imatinib generally have a 
lower response rate and PFS than those with KIT exon 11 tumors at a 
dose of 400 mg daily, but imatinib 400 mg two times a day (BID)  may 
lead to a better response and PFS . In the  randomized EORTC 62005 
study, the presence of KIT exon 9 mutations was the strongest  adverse 
prognostic factor for risk of progression and death.73 High-dose imatinib 
(400 mg BID ) resulted in a significantly superior PFS with a reduction in 
the relative risk of 61% ( P = .0013) in patients whose tumors expressed 
a KIT exon 9 mutation compared with the standard 400 mg/day  imatinib 
dose.73 Additionally, the response rate after crossover from 400 mg daily 
to 400 mg BID  imatinib was higher  in patients with KIT exon 9 mutations 
(57%) than patients with KIT exon 11 mutations (7%).  Similarly, results 
from the phase III SWOG S0033/CALGB 150105 trial showed that imatinib  at 400 mg BID  resulted in a higher response rate in patients with 
a KIT exon 9 mutation than those with imatinib at 400 mg once daily  
(67% vs. 17%, respectively).
75 A meta- analysis of EORTC 62005 and 
SWOG S0033/CALGB 150105 trials that randomized 1640 patients with advanced GIST to standard -dose imatinib (400 mg daily) or high -dose 
imatinib ( 400 mg BID ) showed a benefit in PFS for patients with KIT exon 
9 mutations treated with high- dose imatinib.
76  
While most GIST with PDGFRA  mutations are associated with a 
response to imatinib, those with certain mutations, such as D842V , PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-12 generally do not  respond.11,15 In a survey of patients with confirmed 
PDGFRA  mutations, none of 31 evaluable patients with a D842V  
mutation had a response to imatinib, and 21 of 31 (68%) experienced  
disease progression.77 The median PFS was 2.8 months for patients with 
D842V  compared with 28.5 months for patients with other PDGFRA  
mutations  (eg, indels in exon 18) . With 46 months of follow -up, the 
median OS was 14.7 months for patients with D842V  and not reached for 
patients with other PDGFRA  mutations.  
Imatinib is included in the guidelines as a category 1 preferred  first-line 
treatment option for patients with advanced or metastatic GIST with 
imatinib -sensitive  mutations ; however, it is not recommended for the 
treatment of GIST with PDGFRA exon 18 mutations that are insensitive 
to imatinib, especially D842V  (GIST -4 and GIST- D 1 of 2) .  
In the adjuvant setting, a  longer duration of imatinib treatment may be 
beneficial for patients with GIST that have  certain KIT mutations.  Follow -
up analysis of a randomized phase III study from the Scandinavian 
Sarcoma Group (SSG XVIII/AIO) revealed that patients with GIST 
harboring a KIT exon 11 deletion appear to benefit most from longer -
duration imatinib, showing higher recurrence -free survival ( RFS) when 
allocated to the 3- year versus 1 -year imatinib group.78 A similar pattern 
related to duration of treatment was not observed for GIST harboring other mutations.   
Imatinib -Insensitive Mutations  
GIST with imatinib -insensitive mutations such as PDGFRA D842V are 
managed differently than most GIST. Avapritinib is a TKI approved for 
the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic GIST with a 
PDGFRA exon 18 mutation, including D842V mutations.
79,80 The 
approval of avapritinib for GIST was based on results from the open-
label, single -arm phase I NAVIGATOR trial that evaluated the safety and 
antitumor activity of avapritinib in 56 patients with PDGFRA D842V -containing GIST that were unresectable and/or metastatic .81,82 In the 
long- term analysis of the trial, a t data cut -off (median follow -up of 27.5 
months), the overall response rate (ORR) with avapritinib was 91%, with 
a median duration of response (DOR) of 27.6 months.82  
Given these data, the panel recommends avapritinib as the preferred first-line treatment option for patients with unresectable, progressive, or  
metastatic GIST with imatinib -resistant  PDGFRA  D842V mutations or 
other PDGFRA exon 18 mutations  that are known to be imatinib -
insensitive (GIST -4 and GIST- D 1 of 2).   
GIST Without KIT or PDGFRA Mutations  
Approximately 10 %–15% of GIST lack a mutation in either KIT or 
PDGFRA .16,71 Most of these have functional inactivation of the succinate 
dehydrogenase ( SDH ) complex (either from mutations or epigenetic 
silencing leading to a lack of SDH protein expression),16 which has been 
shown to be a cause  of tumorigenesis.  GIST with SDH deficiency 
generally lack the gain- of-function tyrosine kinase mutations found in the 
majority of GIST;83 therefore, certain TKIs (specifically imatinib) have 
limited efficacy in this setting.84  
However, TKIs with activity against vascular endothelial growth factor 
receptor (VEGFR) can be considered as potential options for SDH -
deficient GIST. Data from two small retrospective studies suggested that 
sunitinib may be active in SDH- deficient GIST.85,86 Although sunitinib 
targets KIT and PDGFRA, it is also active against other kinases, 
including VEGFR.87 Regorafenib is another TKI with activity against 
VEGFR , and was reported to be clinically active  against SDH -deficient 
GIST in a small number of patients.88,89 In a phase II study, p rolonged 
disease control was achieved  in one patient with SDH- deficient GIST 
treated with pazopanib, another TKI that targets VEGFR .90,91 Based on 
these limited data, the guidelines recommend consideration of  sunitinib, 
regorafenib, and pazopanib as options  for unresectable SDH -deficient PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-13 GIST (GIST -D 1 of 2 and GIST -D 2 of 2).  There are other  potential 
treatments  on the horizon for patients with SDH -deficient GIST ; for 
example, temozolomide  has shown promise in this setting based on 
preclinical data,92 and is currently undergoing clinical testing 
(NCT03556384) .  
GIST with NTRK  fusions in the absence of KIT/PDGFRA  mutations may 
occur.93-95 NTRK  fusion is an actionable alteration, as both larotrectinib 
and entrectinib were granted accelerated approval by the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration ( FDA) for the treatment of solid tumors with NTRK  
gene fusions .96,97 In a combined analysis of three studies, larotrectinib 
resulted in an ORR  of 75% (based on independent review) in children 
and adults with locally advanced or metastatic NTRK  fusion -positive solid 
tumors, including GIST.98 An integrated analysis of three trials found that 
entrectinib led to an objective response in 57% of adults with locally 
advanced or metastatic NTRK  fusion -positive solid tumors.99 The 
guidelines recommend larotrectinib and entrectinib as preferred first -line 
treatment options for patients with unresectable, progressive , or 
metastatic GIST that are NTRK -fusion positive (GIST -D 1 of 2).  
Other genomic events, such as alterations in BRAF, NF1 , and FGFR,  
may also occur in GIST.21,95,100- 104 The guidelines do not recommend 
specific therapies for GIST with these alterations; however, the presence 
of these genomic events could be used to identify potential targeted 
therapy options. For example, combination therapy with dabrafenib and 
trametinib was recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors with BRAF V600E mutations.
105  
Management of Resistance to Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors  
Resistance to Imatinib  
While imatinib improves outcomes for patients with advanced or 
metastatic GIST, many will develop resistance to the drug. Primary imatinib resistance is defined as the evidence of clinical progression 
developing during the first 6 months of imatinib therapy ; this  is most 
commonly seen in patients with KIT exon 9 mutations treated with 
imatinib at 400 mg daily, PDGFRA  D842V  mutations, or those with 
tumors that lack identifiable activating mutations in KIT or PDGFRA,  the 
majority of which are SDH -deficient GIST , thus underscoring the 
importance of genotyping GIST .70,74,75,106 Secondary resistance is seen in 
patients who have been on imatinib for more than 6 months with an initial 
response or disease stabilization followed by progression, most 
commonly because of the outgrowth of tumor clones with secondary 
mutations in KIT.107- 110  
For GIST with limited progression following the standard imatinib dose 
regimen, several options are available (GIST -5). The same dose of 
imatinib can be continued, while also considering resection (if feasible), 
ablation procedures/embolization/chemoembolization, or palliative RT 
(category 2B) for symptomatic lesions. The TKI can also be switched to 
sunitinib (category 1) ; alternatively, dose escalation of imatinib  to 800 
mg/d ay (400 mg BID) is another option.40,61,62 Data have suggested that 
certain patients with GIST, particularly those with KIT exon 9 mutations, 
may derive benefit from imatinib dose escalation .76,111 For patients with 
performance status  (PS) 0–2 and generalized disease progression 
following treatment with imatinib 400 mg/day , the guidelines recommend 
switching to an alternate TKI or escalating the dose of imatinib, as 
tolerated (GIST- 5 and GIST -D 1 of 2).  
The approval of sunitinib for the treatment of patients with imatinib -
refractory or intolerant GIST was primarily based on a phase III 
randomized controlled study in 312 patients with advanced GIST that were resistant or intolerant to prior imatinib treatment.
61,112 The median 
time to tumor progression was 27.3 weeks in the sunitinib group versus 6.4 weeks in the placebo group ( hazard ratio [ HR] 0.33; P < .0001).   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-14 The clinical activity of sunitinib in imatinib -resistant GIST can vary 
depending on the presence of primary and secondary KIT mutations. 
One study found that second -line sunitinib induced higher clinical benefit 
(PR or stable disease for ≥6 months) in patients with imatinib -
resistant/intolerant GIST with primary KIT exon 9 mutations than those 
with KIT exon 11 mutations (58% vs. 34%, respectively).106 Median PFS 
and OS were significantly longer for patients with KIT exon 9 mutations 
or non-mutated KIT than those with KIT exon 11 mutations. In patients 
with KIT exon 11 mutations, median PFS and OS were longer for those 
with secondary exon 13 or 14 mutations compared to those with exon 17 
or 18 mutations. Although sunitinib appears to have activity against 
tumors with KIT adenosine triphosphate (ATP) -binding pocket mutations  
(exons 13 and 14)  that confer resistance to imatinib, it has little activity 
against tumors with imatinib -resistant mutations in the KIT activation loop 
(exons 17 and 18) .113- 115  
Based on these data, sunitinib (category 1)  is recommended as a 
preferred second -line option for  patients with unresectable, progressive, 
or metastatic GIST previously treated with imatinib (GIST -D 1 of 2).   
For patients with a PDGFRA D842V mutation or other PDGFRA  exon 18 
mutations that are insensitive to imatinib, the guidelines recommend 
dasatinib as a second- line option. The clinical evidence supporting use of 
dasatinib as a second- line therapy is described in more detail in the 
Resistance to Avapritinib section.  
Resistance to Imatinib and Sunitinib  
Regorafenib, a multikinase inhibitor with activity against KIT, PDGFR, 
VEGFR, and others, can be considered f or patients with locally 
advanced, unresectable, or metastatic GIST previously treated with 
imatinib and sunitinib.88 The FDA approval of regorafenib in this setting 
was based on results from t he phase III randomized GRID trial, where 
regorafenib versus placebo was evaluated in 199 patients with metastatic and/or unresectable GIST that progressed  on prior therapy 
with imatinib and sunitinib.116 The median PFS (4.8 months vs. 0.9 
months; P < .0001) and the disease control rate (DCR; 53% vs. 9%) 
were significantly higher for regorafenib than placebo. The PFS rates at 3 and 6 months were 60% and 38%, respectively, for regorafenib 
compared to 11% and 0%, respectively, for placebo. The HR for OS was 
0.77 with 85% of patients in the placebo arm crossing over to regorafenib due to disease progression. Long -term follow- up (median 41 months) 
from a phase II study in unresectable or metastatic GIST (n = 33 ) 
suggested that patients with KIT exon 11 mutations or SDH- deficient 
GIST may derive a greater PFS benefit from regorafenib than KIT/PDGFRA  wild-type, non- SDH– deficient tumors.
89 Given these data, 
regorafenib  (category 1)  is included in the guidelines on GIST -D 1 of 2 as 
a preferred third- line option following imatinib and sunitinib.  
Resistance to Imatinib, Sunitinib, and Regorafenib  
Ripretinib, a TKI that inhibit s KIT and PDGFRA kinases,  is approved by 
the FDA for adults with advanced GIST who have received prior 
treatment with 3 or more kinase inhibitors, including imatinib.117 In the 
phase III INVICTUS trial, ripretinib 150 mg daily was evaluated against 
placebo in patients with advanced GIST who were previously treated 
with imatinib, sunitinib, and regorafenib.118 The median PFS of the 
ripretinib group was 6.3 months, compared with 1.0 months in the 
placebo group ( P < .0001). Ripretinib  (category 1)  is recommended in the 
guidelines as a preferred fourth -line option for patients with unresectable, 
progressive, or metastatic GIST after treatment with imatinib, sunitinib, 
and regorafenib (GIST -D 1 of 2).  
In a follow -up analysis of INVICTUS, dose escalation of ripretinib to 150 
mg BID was evaluated in 43 patients who experienced disease 
progression while on ripretinib 150 mg daily.119 The median OS was 18.4 
months for patients who switched to ripretinib 150 mg BID, compared PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-15 with 14.2 months for patients from INVICTUS who experienced disease 
progression but did not undergo dose escalation. The median PFS  after 
receiving the first dose of 150 mg BID was 3.7 months.  The guidelines 
include dose escalation of ripretinib to 150 mg BID as an option for 
patients who experience disease progression while on ripretinib 150 mg daily (GIST -D 1 of 2).  
Resistance to Imatinib, Sunitinib, Regorafenib, and Ripretinib  
Other TKIs are recommended in the guidelines as off -label options after 
disease progression on approved therapies (GIST -D 1 of 2). Much of the 
data on these TKIs are derived from phase II studies and retrospective 
analyses involving a small number of patients.  Additionally, many of 
these studies only included patients previously treated with imatinib and 
sunitinib, but not regorafenib and/or ripretinib.  
A few studies have evaluated sorafenib as an option for some patients 
with advanced or metastatic GIST .120- 123 In a prospective, multicenter, 
phase II study of 38 patients with unresectable, KIT-positive  GIST that 
had progressed on imatinib and sunitinib, sorafenib resulted in a DCR of 68% (55% had stable disease and 13% had PR).
120 Median PFS and OS 
were 5.2 months and 11.6 months, respectively. In a retrospective 
analysis of 124 patients with metastatic GIST resistant to imatinib and 
sunitinib, the median PFS and OS of patients who received sorafenib 
was 6.4 months and 13.5 months,  respectively.122  
Another TKI  that can be considered is nilotinib .124- 128 In a retrospective 
analysis of 52 patients with advanced imatinib - and sunitinib -resistant 
GIST, nilotinib resulted in a 10% response rate and 37% DCR.125 Median 
PFS and OS were 12 weeks and 34 weeks, respectively. In a 
randomized phase III study of nilotinib as third -line therapy in patients 
with GIST resistant or intolerant to imatinib and sunitinib (248 patients), the PFS on nilotinib was not superior to  best supportive care (109 days 
vs. 111 days; P = .56).
127 In a post hoc analysis, nilotinib led to an improved OS (>4 months) compared with best supportive care (405 days 
vs. 280 days; P = .02) in patients whose disease  progressed on both 
imatinib and sunitinib. This clinical benefit may be specific to patients 
with secondary KIT exon 17 mutations.128 In a phase III trial that 
evaluated nilotinib versus imatinib in the first -line setting, none of the 
patients with KIT exon 9 mutations treated with nilotinib achieved an 
objective response. Additionally, nilotinib resulted in a shorter PFS than 
imatinib in those with KIT exon 9 mutations, suggesting that nilotinib is 
not effective for this mutation type.129 
Pazopanib also has  modest activity in unselected, heavily pretreated 
patients with advanced GIST.90,130 In a randomized, phase II trial 
comparing pazopanib to best supportive care in imatinib-  and sunitinib -
resistant GIST (n = 81), median PFS was 3.4 months versus 2.3 months, 
respectively (HR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.37– 0.96; P = .03).130  
Cabozantinib  is another TKI that may be considered for patients whose 
disease has progressed on approved therapies.131 Everolimus in 
combination with a TKI (ie, imatinib, sunitinib, regorafenib) may also be 
active in imatinib -resistant GIST.132 
For a complete list of additional options for GIST that have progressed 
on approved therapies, please see GIST -D 1 of 2.  
Resistance to Avapritinib  
For GIST that become avapritinib- resistant , several options are 
recommended (GIST -5). For limited disease progression, avapritinib  
treatment  can be continued while also considering additional options, 
such as resection (if feasible), ablation procedures , embolization , 
chemoembolization, or palliative RT (category 2B) for symptomatic 
lesions. For patients with generalized disease progression following first-
line avapritinib who also have PS 0 –2, the guidelines recommend 
switching to an alternate TKI. Several studies have suggested that PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-16 dasatinib can be considered as another option for GIST with PDGFRA 
D842V.133- 135 Dasatinib has been shown to be a potent inhibitor of cells 
expressing the PDGFRA  D842V mutation  in vitro .133 Additionally, a single 
arm, open- label study evaluated the antitumor activity of dasatinib in 50 
patients with advanced imatinib- refractory GIST.135 The primary endpoint 
(>30% 6- month PFS) was not met, as t he 6- month PFS was 29 %. 
However, the study provided evidence that dasatinib may have some 
clinical activity in this population, as a partial tumor response was 
observed in 25% of patients, including one with an imatinib- resistant 
PDGFRA exon 18 (D842V) mutation. Therefore, the guidelines 
recommend dasatinib as a  preferred  second -line therapy option for 
patients with PDGFRA exon 18 mutations (including D842V) whose 
disease has become resistant to either avapritinib or imatinib (GIST -D 1 
of 2).  
Ripretinib is another TKI that exhibits broad activity against both KIT and 
PDGFRA (including D842V) in the preclinical setting;136 however, 
additional clinical trials are needed to confirm the efficacy of ripretinib 
against GIST with PDGFRA  D842V mutations. The guidelines recommend 
ripretinib 150 mg daily as an option that may be useful in certain 
circumstances  for GIST that progress following avapritinib and dasatinib 
(GIST -D 1 of 2). Dose escalation of ripretinib to 150 mg BID can also be 
considered.  
Other Options for Progressive Disease  
In addition to  the systemic therapies  described above, other options are 
recommended for progressive disease (GIST- 5). Resection (if feasible), 
ablation procedures, embolization, or chemoembolization are options for 
patients with limited disease progression; palliative RT is another 
alternative for those with symptomatic lesions. If the disease continues to 
progress despit e prior therapies, a  repeat tumor biopsy can be considered 
to potentially identify uncommon mutations that may have a corresponding targe ted therapy.
137,138 Clinical trials and best supportive care are also recommended. Reintroduction of a previously tolerated and effective TKI can be considered for palliation of symptoms. Continuation of life- long TKI 
therapy can be considered for palliation of symptoms as part of best 
supportive care.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-17 Initial Evaluation and Workup 
All patients should be managed by a multidisciplinary team with expertise 
in sarcoma. Essential elements of the workup include the H&P, primary 
site and chest imaging, EUS in selected patients, endoscopy as indicated 
(if not previously done), and surgical assessment. Genotyping is 
recommended for cases in which medical therapy is anticipated. For very 
small GIST (<2 cm), abdominal/pelvic C T and/or MRI is sufficient. For all 
other GIST, workup includes baseline abdominal/pelvic CT and/or abdominal/pelvic MRI, along with chest imaging using CT or x -ray. 
PET/CT can be considered. Baseline PET/CT should be performed if PET/CT will be used during follow -up. 
Treatment Guidelines 
Resectable Disease  
Primary/Preoperative Treatment  
Surgery is the primary treatment for all patients with GIST (2 cm or greater)  that are resectable without significant risk of morbidity. 
Preoperative imatinib may be beneficial as primary treatment for patients 
with GIST  that is resectable with negative margins but with a significant 
risk of morbidity.
45,47 The use of preoperative imatinib may, however, 
prohibit the accurate assessment of recurrence risk. Preoperative imatinib 
should be considered only if surgical morbidity could be reduced by 
downstaging the tumor prior to resection. Close monitoring is ess ential 
because some patients may rapidly become unresectable. In prospective studies, preoperative imatinib has been tested at a daily dose of either 400 
mg
47,48 or 600 mg.45,46 The guidelines recommend an initial dose of 400 
mg daily. Patients with documented KIT  exon 9 mutations may benefit 
from dose escalation up to 800 mg daily (given as 400 mg twice daily), as 
tolerated.  Baseline imaging is recommended prior to the start of preoperative 
imatinib. To assess response to TKI therapy, abdominal/pelvic CT or MRI 
is indicated every 8 to 12 weeks. PET may give an indication of imatinib 
activity after 2 to 4 weeks if rapid read- out is necessary. Since the optimal 
duration of preoperative therapy remains unknown, in patients with disease that is responding to therapy, imatinib should be continued until 
maximal response ( defined as no further improvement between 2 
successive CT scans , which can take as long as 6– 12 months). However, 
it is not always necessary to wait for a maximal response to perform 
surgery. Surgery is recommended if bleeding and/or symptoms are 
present. For patients with disease that is responding to treatment, 
response assessment imaging can be performed less frequently. 
Progression may be determined by abdominal/pelvic CT or MRI with 
clinical interpretation, relying on PET/CT as needed to clarify ambiguous 
results. Assess medication adherence before determining that therapy 
was ineffective. If there is no progression, continuation of the same dose 
of imatinib is recommended and resection should be considered, if 
possible. If there is progression, surgery is recommended after 
discontinuing imatinib. In patients taking preoperative imatinib, dosing can 
be stopped right before surgery and resumed as soon as the patient is 
able to tolerate oral medications following surgery, regardless of surgical 
margins. Collaboration between the medical oncologist and the surgeon is 
necessary to determine the appropriateness of surgery following major 
response or stable disease.  
However, the management of incidentally encountered small GIST less 
than 2 cm remains controversial.
7 At present, there are insufficient data to 
guide the management of very small GIST (less than 2 cm) discovered incidentally on endoscopy, and the usefulness of regular EUS surveillance 
has not been established. Complete surgical resection is the mainstay of 
treatment in symptomatic patients. For a subset of patients with very small 
gastric GIST (less than 2 cm) with no high -risk EUS features (ie, irregular PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-18 extra -luminal border, heterogeneous echo pattern, presence of cystic 
spaces, echogenic foci), periodic endoscopic or radiographic surveillance 
may be considered.8,139  
Postoperative Treatment  
Based on results of the ACOSOG Z9001 study and the randomized phase 
III study SSGXVIII/AIO  (NCT00116935), the guidelines recommend 
postoperative imatinib following complete resection for primary GIST with 
no preoperative imatinib for patients at intermediate or high risk of 
recurrence (category 1).53,56 The panel recommends that postoperative 
imatinib for at least 36 months should be considered for patients with 
high- risk GIST.56,57   
Estimation of risk of recurrence is important in selecting patients who 
would benefit from postoperative therapy following complete resection. In 
the ACOSOG Z9001 study, risk stratification was based only on tumor size 
and postoperative imatinib improved R FS in patients with GIST 3 cm or 
larger; however, it was statistically significant in patients with intermediate (6 cm or greater and less than 10 cm) and high risk (greater than 10 cm) 
of recurrence.
53,54 In the SSGXVIII/AIO study, risk stratification was based 
on tumor size, site, mitotic count, and rupture; survival benefit was seen in 
patients with high risk of recurrence (mitotic index of >5 mitoses/50 HPF, 
size >5 cm, non -gastric location, and tumor r upture).56 Risk stratification 
after surgical resection should be based on tumor mitotic rate, size, and 
location.140 Gold and colleagues have developed a nomogram, taking into 
account tumor size, site, and mitotic index, to predict RFS after resection of localized primary GIST.
141 This nomogram accurately predicts RFS after 
resection of localized primary GIST and might be useful for patient care, interpretation of study results, and selection of patients for postoperative 
imatinib therapy.  
For patients with complete resection following preoperative imatinib, the 
panel agreed that continuation of imatinib (at the same dose that induced objective response) is warranted. The panel acknowledged that while data 
from single and multicenter studies support the continuation of 
postoperative imatinib for 2 years following surgery, the exact duration of 
postoperative imatinib in this group of pat ients has not been studied in 
randomized studies.
45-48 The long- term analysis of the RTOG 0132 study 
suggested that a high percentage of patients progressed after 
discontinuation of 2 -year postoperative imatinib therapy.142  
For patients with completely resected disease who did not receive 
preoperative imatinib, postoperative imatinib is recommended for patients 
with intermediate or high- risk disease (category 1). Observation can be 
considered for completely resected, low -risk disease.   
In patients with persistent gross disease following resection (R2 resection) 
who received preoperative imatinib, additional resection may be 
considered to remove residual disease. Imatinib treatment should be 
continued following re -resection regardless of surgical margins until 
progression. Postoperative imatinib should be initiated following resection 
if the patient did not receive prior imatinib therapy.   
Unresectable, Metastatic, or Recurrent Disease 
Baseline imaging is recommended prior to initiation of treatment. Imatinib 
(category 1) is the primary treatment for patients with advanced, 
unresectable, or metastatic GIST. Imatinib has been shown to improve 
resectability and reduce surgical morbidity in patients with documented 
unresectable GI ST or in patients for whom resection would carry the risk 
of severe postoperative functional deficit.47,48 Several retrospective studies 
have demonstrated survival benefit of cytoreductive surgery following 
preoperative imatinib in patients with advanced or metastatic GIST 
responding to preoperative imatinib.143- 150 No definitive data exist to prove 
whether surgical resection improves clinical outcome in addition to TKI 
therapy for patients with resectable metastatic GIST. Prospective phase III PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-19 studies are underway to assess whether or not resection changes 
outcome in patients with unresectable metastatic GIST responding to TKI 
therapy.   
Providers should consider resection if complete resection can be obtained in primary metastatic disease. To assess response to TKI therapy, 
abdominal/pelvic CT or MRI is indicated every 8 to 12 weeks. PET may 
give an indication of imatinib activity after 2  to 4 weeks if rapid read- out is 
necessary. If there is no progression, resection can be considered 
following surgical consultation. Imatinib should be continued if resection is 
not feasible. At this time, continuous use of imatinib is recommended for 
metastatic GIST until progression. The patient should be maintained on 
the same dose, and the dose of imatinib should not be increased if 
patients remain stable without objective progression of the disease. 
Termination of imatinib in patients with GIST that is  refractory to imatinib 
has been shown to result in a flare phenomenon, which in turn indicates that even in patients with progressive disease on imatinib therapy, there 
are some tumor cells for which imatinib may still be effective.
151 
Recurrence following complete resection should be managed as described 
for unresectable or metastatic disease, because recurrent disease 
represents locoregional metastatic or infiltrative spread of the malignancy 
and carries essentially the same prognosis as distant metastases overall.  
Progressive Disease  
Progression is defined as the appearance of a new lesion or an increase in tumor size and may be determined by abdominal/pelvic CT or MRI with 
clinical interpretation, using PET/CT as needed to clarify ambiguous 
results. Medication adherence should be assessed prior to determining 
that therapy is ineffective.  
Dose escalation of imatinib up to 800 mg daily (given as 400 mg twice 
daily) as tolerated or switching to sunitinib (category 1) are included as options for patients with progressive disease (limited disease or widespread systemic disease in patients with good performance status) on 
standard -dose imatinib.
40,61,62 All clinical and radiological data, including 
lesion density on CT and patient compliance to treatment with 
standard -dose imatinib, should be assessed prior to dose escalation of 
imatinib or switching to sunitinib.  
For patients with limited progressive disease on standard- dose imatinib, 
second -line therapy with sunitinib should be initiated only if the majority 
of disease is no longer controlled by imatinib; consideration of other 
therapeutic interventions for progressing lesion(s) is warranted. Surgical 
resection should be considered in carefully selected patients with limited 
progressive disease that is potentially easily resectable.143,148,152 
However, incomplete resections are frequent with high complication 
rates. The guidelines have included, only for patients with limited 
progressive disease, continuation of imatinib at the same initial dose and treatment of progressing lesions with resection, RFA, chemoembolization 
(category 2B), or palliative RT (category 2B) for rare patients with bone metastases.
7  
Regorafenib (category 1) is recommended for patients with disease progression on imatinib and sunitinib.
116 Based on limited data,90,120 -
128,130,132 -134 the guidelines have also included sorafenib, dasatinib, nilotinib, 
pazopanib, and everolimus plus TKI as additional options for patients who 
are no longer receiving clinical benefit from imatinib, sunitinib, or 
regorafenib, although much of the data regarding the potential benefit of 
these agents were collected in the pre- regorafenib era.  
In patients with progressive disease no longer receiving benefit from 
current TKI therapy, re- introduction of previously tolerated and effective 
TKI therapy for palliation of symptoms can be considered.153,154 The 
results of a recent randomized study demonstrated that imatinib 
rechallenge significantly improved PFS and DCR in patients with PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-20 advanced GIST after failure of at least imatinib and sunitinib.154 However, 
the duration of survival benefit was brief due to continued progression of 
TKI-resistant clones.  
Any patient who has disease progression despite prior therapy or who has a recurrence, regardless of presentation, should be considered for 
enrollment in a clinical trial, if an appropriate trial is available.  
Continuation of TKI Therapy  
The optimal duration of TKI therapy in patients with responding or stable 
disease is not known. The results of a prospective, multicenter, 
randomized phase III study ( BFR14) show that there was a significant 
increase in the rate of progressive disease when imatinib therapy was interrupted in patients with advanced disease that was stable or 
responding to imatinib therapy.
155,156 A recent report from this study 
confirmed that patients with rapid disease progression after interruption of imatinib had a poorer prognosis.
157 More importantly, the quality of 
response upon reintroduction of imatinib did not reach the tumor status observed at randomization.  
The panel strongly recommends that TKI therapy at the prescribed daily 
dose should be continued as long as patients are receiving clinical 
benefit (response or stable disease). The panel also feels that life -long 
continuation of TKI therapy for palliation of symptoms should be an 
essential component of best supportive care. However, short 
interruptions for one to two weeks, when medically necessary, have not 
been shown to negatively impact disease control or other outcomes.   
Surveillance  
Patients with completely resected, incompletely resected, or metastatic 
GIST should have a thorough H&P every 3 to 6 months; 
abdominal/pelvic CT scan should be performed every 3 to 6 months for 3 to 5 years, then annually. Less frequent surveillance may be acceptable 
for low -risk or very small tumors (<2 cm). Progression may be 
determined by CT or MRI with clinical interpretation; PET/CT can be 
considered to clarify ambiguous CT results.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-21 References  
1. Hirota S, Isozaki K, Moriyama Y, et al. Gain- of-function mutations of c -
kit in human gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Science 1998;279:577- 580. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9438854.  
2. Ma GL, Murphy JD, Martinez ME, Sicklick JK. Epidemiology of 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors in the era of histology codes: results of a 
population- based study. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2015;24:298 -
302. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25277795 . 
3. Tran T, Davila JA, El -Serag HB. The epidemiology of malignant 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors: an analysis of 1,458 cases from 1992 to 2000. Am J Gastroenterol 2005;100:162 -168. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15654796 . 
4. Perez EA, Livingstone AS, Franceschi D, et al. Current incidence and 
outcomes of gastrointestinal mesenchymal tumors including 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors. J Am Coll Surg 2006;202:623 -629. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16571433.  
5. Patel N, Benipal B. Incidence of Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors in the 
United States from 2001 -2015: A United States Cancer Statistics Analysis 
of 50 States. Cureus 2019;11:e4120. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31037234 . 
6. Miettinen M, Lasota J. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: pathology and 
prognosis at different sites. Semin Diagn Pathol 2006;23:70 -83. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17193820 . 
7. Demetri GD, von Mehren M, Antonescu CR, et al. NCCN Task Force report: update on the management of patients with gastrointestinal stromal 
tumors. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2010;8 Suppl 2:S1- 41. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20457867 . 
8. Sepe PS, Moparty B, Pitman MB, et al. EUS -guided FNA for the 
diagnosis of GI stromal cell tumors: sensitivity and cytologic yield. 
Gastrointest Endosc 2009;70:254 -261. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19482280 . 9. Fletcher CD, Berman JJ, Corless C, et al. Diagnosis of gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors: A consensus approach. Hum Pathol 2002;33:459 -465. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12094370.  
10. Heinrich MC, Corless CL, Duensing A, et al. PDGFRA activating 
mutations in gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Science 2003;299:708- 710. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12522257.  
11. Hirota S, Ohashi A, Nishida T, et al. Gain- of-function mutations of 
platelet -derived growth factor receptor alpha gene in gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors. Gastroenterology 2003;125:660- 667. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12949711 . 
12. Miettinen M, Lasota J. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: review on 
morphology, molecular pathology, prognosis, and differential diagnosis. 
Arch Pathol Lab Med 2006;130:1466 -1478. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17090188 . 
13. Lasota J, Miettinen M. Clinical significance of oncogenic KIT and 
PDGFRA mutations in gastrointestinal stromal tumours. Histopathology 
2008;53:245 -266. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18312355 . 
14. Lasota J, Corless CL, Heinrich MC, et al. Clinicopathologic profile of 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) with primary KIT exon 13 or exon 
17 mutations: a multicenter study on 54 cases. Mod Pathol 2008;21:476 -
484. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18246046 . 
15. Corless CL, Schroeder A, Griffith D, et al. PDGFRA mutations in 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors: frequency, spectrum and in vitro sensitivity 
to imatinib. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:5357 -5364. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15928335 . 
16. Janeway KA, Kim SY, Lodish M, et al. Defects in succinate 
dehydrogenase in gastrointestinal stromal tumors lacking KIT and 
PDGFRA mutations. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2011;108:314 -318. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21173220.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-22 17. Italiano A, Chen CL, Sung YS, et al. SDHA loss of function mutations 
in a subset of young adult wild- type gastrointestinal stromal tumors. BMC 
Cancer 2012;12:408. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22974104 . 
18. Oudijk L, Gaal J, Korpershoek E, et al. SDHA mutations in adult and 
pediatric wild -type gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Mod Pathol 
2013;26:456 -463. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23174939 . 
19. Pantaleo MA, Astolfi A, Urbini M, et al. Analysis of all subunits, SDHA, 
SDHB, SDHC, SDHD, of the succinate dehydrogenase complex in 
KIT/PDGFRA wild -type GIST. Eur J Hum Genet 2014;22:32 -39. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23612575 . 
20. Doyle LA, Nelson D, Heinrich MC, et al. Loss of succinate 
dehydrogenase subunit B (SDHB) expression is limited to a distinctive 
subset of gastric wild- type gastrointestinal stromal tumours: a 
comprehensive genotype- phenotype correlation study. Histopat hology 
2012;61:801 -809. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22804613 . 
21. Agaram NP, Wong GC, Guo T, et al. Novel V600E BRAF mutations in 
imatinib -naive and imatinib- resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumors. 
Genes Chromosomes Cancer 2008;47:853 -859. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18615679 . 
22. Agaimy A, Terracciano LM, Dirnhofer S, et al. V600E BRAF mutations are alternative early molecular events in a subset of KIT/PDGFRA wild-
type gastrointestinal stromal tumours. J Clin Pathol 2009;62:613 -616. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19561230.  
23. Miettinen M, Wang ZF, Lasota J. DOG1 antibody in the differential 
diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors: a study of 1840 cases. Am J 
Surg Pathol 2009;33:1401- 1408. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19606013 . 
24. Miettinen M, Sobin LH, Lasota J. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the 
stomach: a clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular genetic study of 1765 cases with long- term follow- up. Am J Surg Pathol 
2005;29:52 -68. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15613856 . 
25. Miettinen M, Makhlouf H, Sobin LH, Lasota J. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the jejunum and ileum: a clinicopathologic, 
immunohistochemical, and molecular genetic study of 906 cases before 
imatinib with long -term follow- up. Am J Surg Pathol 2006;30:477 -489. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16625094.  
26. Wozniak A, Rutkowski P, Schoffski P, et al. Tumor genotype is an independent prognostic factor in primary gastrointestinal stromal tumors of 
gastric origin: a european multicenter analysis based on ConticaGIST. Clin 
Cancer Res 2014;20:6105- 6116. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25294914 . 
27. Patrikidou A, Domont J, Chabaud S, et al. Long- term outcome of 
molecular subgroups of GIST patients treated with standard- dose imatinib 
in the BFR14 trial of the French Sarcoma Group. Eur J Cancer 2016;52:173 -180. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26687836 . 
28. Prior JO, Montemurro M, Orcurto MV, et al. Early prediction of response to sunitinib after imatinib failure by 18F -fluorodeoxyglucose 
positron emission tomography in patients with gastrointestinal stromal 
tumor. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:439 -445. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19064982 . 
29. Choi H, Charnsangavej C, Faria SC, et al. Correlation of computed tomography and positron emission tomography in patients with metastatic 
gastrointestinal stromal tumor treated at a single institution with imatinib 
mesylate: proposal of new computed tomography response criteria. J Clin 
Oncol 2007;25:1753 -1759. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17470865 . 
30. Dudeck O, Zeile M, Reichardt P, Pink D. Comparison of RECIST and 
Choi criteria for computed tomographic response evaluation in patients 
with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumor treated with sunitinib. Ann PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-23 Oncol 2011;22:1828 -1833. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21289369 . 
31. Patel SA, Royce TJ, Barysauskas CM, et al. Surveillance Imaging 
Patterns and Outcomes Following Radiation Therapy and Radical 
Resection for Localized Extremity and Trunk Soft Tissue Sarcoma. Ann 
Surg Oncol 2017. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28058559 . 
32. Schramm N, Englhart E, Schlemmer M, et al. Tumor response and 
clinical outcome in metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors under 
sunitinib therapy: comparison of RECIST, Choi and volumetric criteria. Eur 
J Radiol 2013;82:951- 958. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23518148 . 
33. Shinagare AB, Barysauskas CM, Braschi -Amirfarzan M, et al. 
Comparison of performance of various tumor response criteria in 
assessment of sunitinib activity in advanced gastrointestinal stromal 
tumors. Clin Imaging 2016;40:880 -884. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27179958 . 
34. Shinagare AB, Jagannathan JP, Kurra V, et al. Comparison of performance of various tumour response criteria in assessment of 
regorafenib activity in advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours after 
failure of imatinib and sunitinib. Eur J Cancer 2014;50:981 -986. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24388774.  
35. Benjamin RS, Choi H, Macapinlac HA, et al. We should desist using RECIST, at least in GIST. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:1760- 1764. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17470866 . 
36. Young H, Baum R, Cremerius U, et al. Measurement of clinical and subclinical tumour response using [18F] -fluorodeoxyglucose and positron 
emission tomography: review and 1999 EORTC recommendations. European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) 
PET Study Group Eur J Cancer 1999;35:1773 -1782. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10673991 . 37. Chen K, Zhou YC, Mou YP, et al. Systematic review and meta -
analysis of safety and efficacy of laparoscopic resection for 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach. Surg Endosc 2015;29:355 -
367. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25005014 . 
38. Demetri GD, von Mehren M, Blanke CD, et al. Efficacy and safety of imatinib mesylate in advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors. N Engl J 
Med 2002;347:472 -480. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12181401 . 
39. Verweij J, Casali PG, Zalcberg J, et al. Progression- free survival in 
gastrointestinal stromal tumours with high -dose imatinib: randomised trial. 
Lancet 2004;364:1127- 1134. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15451219 . 
40. Zalcberg JR, Verweij J, Casali PG, et al. Outcome of patients with 
advanced gastro -intestinal stromal tumours crossing over to a daily 
imatinib dose of 800 mg after progression on 400 mg. Eur J Cancer 2005;41:1751 -1757. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16098458 . 
41. Blanke CD, Demetri GD, von Mehren M, et al. Long -term results from 
a randomized phase II trial of standard - versus higher -dose imatinib 
mesylate for patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors expressing KIT. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:620 -625. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18235121 . 
42. Blanke CD, Rankin C, Demetri GD, et al. Phase III randomized, intergroup trial assessing imatinib mesylate at two dose levels in patients 
with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors expressing 
the kit receptor tyrosine kinase: S0033 . J Clin Oncol 2008;26:626- 632. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18235122.  
43. von Mehren M, Heinrich MC, Joensuu H, et al. Follow -up results after 
9 years (yrs) of the ongoing, phase II B2222 trial of imatinib mesylate (IM) 
in patients (pts) with metastatic or unresectable KIT+ gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors (GIST) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2011;29(15_Suppl):Abstract 
10016. Available at: 
http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/29/15_suppl/10016 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-24 44. Casali PG, Zalcberg J, Le Cesne A, et al. Ten -year progression- free 
and overall survival in patients with unresectable or metastatic GI stromal 
tumors: Long- term analysis of the European Organisation for Research 
and Treatment of Cancer, Italian Sarcom a Group, and Australasian 
Gastrointestinal Trials Group Intergroup phase III randomized trial on 
imatinib at two dose levels. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:1713- 1720. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28362562 . 
45. Eisenberg BL, Harris J, Blanke CD, et al. Phase II trial of 
neoadjuvant/adjuvant imatinib mesylate (IM) for advanced primary and 
metastatic/recurrent operable gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST): early 
results of RTOG 0132/ACRIN 6665. J Surg Oncol 2009;99:42 -47. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18942073.  
46. McAuliffe JC, Hunt KK, Lazar AJF, et al. A randomized, phase II study of preoperative plus postoperative imatinib in GIST: evidence of rapid 
radiographic response and temporal induction of tumor cell apoptosis. Ann 
Surg Oncol 2009;16:910 -919. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18953611 . 
47. Fiore M, Palassini E, Fumagalli E, et al. Preoperative imatinib 
mesylate for unresectable or locally advanced primary gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors (GIST). Eur J Surg Oncol 2009;35:739- 745. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19110398 . 
48. Blesius A, Cassier PA, Bertucci F, et al. Neoadjuvant imatinib in 
patients with locally advanced non metastatic GIST in the prospective 
BFR14 trial. BMC Cancer 2011;11:72. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21324142 . 
49. Eisenberg BL, Judson I. Surgery and imatinib in the management of GIST: emerging approaches to adjuvant and neoadjuvant therapy. Ann 
Surg Oncol 2004;11:465 -475. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15123459 . 
50. Gold JS, Dematteo RP. Combined surgical and molecular therapy: the 
gastrointestinal stromal tumor model. Ann Surg 2006;244:176 -184. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16858179.  51. DeMatteo RP, Lewis JJ, Leung D, et al. Two hundred gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors: recurrence patterns and prognostic factors for survival. 
Ann Surg 2000;231:51- 58. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10636102 . 
52. Guerin A, Sasane M, Keir CH, et al. Physician Underestimation of the Risk of Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor Recurrence After Resection. JAMA 
Oncol 2015;1:797 -805. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26204106 . 
53. Corless CL, Ballman KV, Antonescu CR, et al. Pathologic and 
molecular features correlate with long- term outcome after adjuvant therapy 
of resected primary GI stromal tumor: the ACOSOG Z9001 trial. J Clin 
Oncol 2014;32:1563 -1570. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24638003 . 
54. Dematteo RP, Ballman KV, Antonescu CR, et al. Adjuvant imatinib mesylate after resection of localised, primary gastrointestinal stromal 
tumour: a randomised, double- blind, placebo- controlled trial. Lancet 
2009;373:1097 -1104. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19303137 . 
55. Casali PG, Le Cesne A, Poveda Velasco A, et al. Time to Definitive 
Failure to the First Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor in Localized GI Stromal 
Tumors Treated With Imatinib As an Adjuvant: A European Organisation 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer Soft Tis sue and Bone Sarcoma 
Group Intergroup Randomized Trial in Collaboration With the Australasian Gastro -Intestinal Trials Group, UNICANCER, French Sarcoma Group, 
Italian Sarcoma Group, and Spanish Group for Research on Sarcomas. J 
Clin Oncol 2015;33:4276 -4283. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26573069 . 
56. Joensuu H, Eriksson M, Sundby Hall K, et al. One vs three years of adjuvant imatinib for operable gastrointestinal stromal tumor: a 
randomized trial. JAMA 2012;307:1265 -1272. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22453568 . 
57. Joensuu H, Eriksson M, Sundby Hall K, et al. Adjuvant Imatinib for 
High-Risk GI Stromal Tumor: Analysis of a Randomized Trial. J Clin Oncol PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-25 2016;34:244 -250. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26527782 . 
58. Joensuu H, Eriksson M, Hall KS, et al. Risk factors for gastrointestinal 
stromal tumor recurrence in patients treated with adjuvant imatinib. Cancer 
2014;120:2325 -2333. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24737415 . 
59. Guilhot F. Indications for imatinib mesylate therapy and clinical 
management. Oncologist 2004;9:271- 281. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15169982 . 
60. Trent JC, Patel SS, Zhang J, et al. Rare incidence of congestive heart failure in gastrointestinal stromal tumor and other sarcoma patients 
receiving imatinib mesylate. Cancer 2010;116:184- 192. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19885836 . 
61. Demetri GD, van Oosterom AT, Garrett CR, et al. Efficacy and safety 
of sunitinib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumour after 
failure of imatinib: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2006;368:1329 -
1338. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17046465 . 
62. George S, Blay JY, Casali PG, et al. Clinical evaluation of continuous 
daily dosing of sunitinib malate in patients with advanced gastrointestinal 
stromal tumour after imatinib failure. Eur J Cancer 2009;45:1959- 1968. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19282169.  
63. Reichardt P, Kang YK, Rutkowski P, et al. Clinical outcomes of 
patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors: safety and efficacy 
in a worldwide treatment -use trial of sunitinib. Cancer 2015;121:1405 -
1413. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25641662 . 
64. Reichardt P, Demetri GD, Gelderblom H, et al. Correlation of KIT and 
PDGFRA mutational status with clinical benefit in patients with 
gastrointestinal stromal tumor treated with sunitinib in a worldwide 
treatment -use trial. BMC Cancer 2016;16:22. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26772734 . 65. Chu D, Lacouture ME, Weiner E, Wu S. Risk of hand -foot skin reaction 
with the multitargeted kinase inhibitor sunitinib in patients with renal cell 
and non- renal cell carcinoma: a meta -analysis. Clin Genitourin Cancer 
2009;7:11 -19. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19213662 . 
66. Zhu X, Stergiopoulos K, Wu S. Risk of hypertension and renal 
dysfunction with an angiogenesis inhibitor sunitinib: systematic review and 
meta -analysis. Acta Oncol 2009;48:9 -17. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18752081 . 
67. Chu TF, Rupnick MA, Kerkela R, et al. Cardiotoxicity associated with 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor sunitinib. Lancet 2007;370:2011- 2019. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18083403 . 
68. Torino F, Corsello SM, Longo R, et al. Hypothyroidism related to 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors: an emerging toxic effect of targeted therapy. Nat 
Rev Clin Oncol 2009;6:219- 228. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19333228 . 
69. Dematteo RP, Heinrich MC, El -Rifai WM, Demetri G. Clinical 
management of gastrointestinal stromal tumors: before and after STI -571. 
Hum Pathol 2002;33:466 -477. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12094371 . 
70. Heinrich MC, Corless CL, Demetri GD, et al. Kinase mutations and 
imatinib response in patients with metastatic gastrointestinal stromal 
tumor. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:4342 -4349. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14645423 . 
71. Corless CL, Fletcher JA, Heinrich MC. Biology of gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:3813- 3825. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15365079 . 
72. Martin- Broto J, Martinez -Marin V, Serrano C, et al. Gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors (GISTs): SEAP -SEOM consensus on pathologic and 
molecular diagnosis. Clin Transl Oncol 2017;19:536- 545. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27943096 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-26 73. Debiec -Rychter M, Sciot R, Le Cesne A, et al. KIT mutations and dose 
selection for imatinib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal 
tumours. Eur J Cancer 2006;42:1093 -1103. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16624552 . 
74. Debiec -Rychter M, Dumez H, Judson I, et al. Use of c -KIT/PDGFRA 
mutational analysis to predict the clinical response to imatinib in patients 
with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours entered on phase I and II 
studies of the EORTC Soft Tissue and B one Sarcoma Group. Eur J 
Cancer 2004;40:689 -695. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15010069 . 
75. Heinrich MC, Owzar K, Corless CL, et al. Correlation of kinase genotype and clinical outcome in the North American Intergroup Phase III 
Trial of imatinib mesylate for treatment of advanced gastrointestinal 
stromal tumor: CALGB 150105 Study by Cancer and Leukemia Group B 
and Southwest Oncology Group. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:5360 -5367. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18955451.  
76. Comparison of two doses of imatinib for the treatment of unresectable 
or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors: a meta- analysis of 1,640 
patients. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1247 -1253. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20124181 . 
77. Cassier PA, Fumagalli E, Rutkowski P, et al. Outcome of patients with 
platelet -derived growth factor receptor alpha- mutated gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors in the tyrosine kinase inhibitor era. Clin Cancer Res 2012;18:4458 -4464. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22718859 . 
78. Joensuu H, Wardelmann E, Sihto H, et al. Effect of KIT and PDGFRA 
mutations on survival in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
treated with adjuvant imatinib: An exploratory analysis of a randomized 
clinical trial. JAMA Oncol 2017;3:602- 609. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28334365 . 
79. Food & Drug Administration. FDA approves avapritinib for 
gastrointestinal stromal tumor with a rare mutation; 2020. Available at: https://www.fda.gov/drugs/resources -information- approved- drugs/fda-
approves -avapritinib -gastrointestinal -stromal -tumor -rare-mutation.  
80. Prescribing information for avapritinib tablets for oral use. Available at: 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2021/212608s007l
bl.pdf . Accessed June 28, 2022.  
81. Heinrich MC, Jones RL, von Mehren M, et al. Avapritinib in advanced 
PDGFRA D842V -mutant gastrointestinal stromal tumour (NAVIGATOR): a 
multicentre, open- label, phase 1 trial. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:935 -946. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32615108.  
82. Jones RL, Serrano C, von Mehren M, et al. Avapritinib in unresectable 
or metastatic PDGFRA D842V -mutant gastrointestinal stromal tumours: 
Long- term efficacy and safety data from the NAVIGATOR phase I trial. Eur 
J Cancer 2021;145:132- 142. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33465704 . 
83. Miettinen M, Wang ZF, Sarlomo- Rikala M, et al. Succinate 
dehydrogenase- deficient GISTs: a clinicopathologic, 
immunohistochemical, and molecular genetic study of 66 gastric GISTs 
with predilection to young age. Am J Surg Pathol 2011;35:1712 -1721. 
Availa ble at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21997692.  
84. Heinrich MC, Rankin C, Blanke CD, et al. Correlation of long -term 
results of imatinib in advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors with next -
generation sequencing results: Analysis of phase 3 SWOG Intergroup 
Trial S0033. JAMA Oncol 2017;3:944 -952. Avail able at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28196207 . 
85. Boikos SA, Pappo AS, Killian JK, et al. Molecular Subtypes of KIT/PDGFRA wild -type gastrointestinal stromal tumors: A report from the 
National Institutes of Health Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor Clinic. JAMA Oncol 2016;2:922 -928. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27011036 . 
86. Liu W, Zeng X, Wu X, et al. Clinicopathologic study of succinate -
dehydrogenase- deficient gastrointestinal stromal tumors: A single-PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-27 institutional experience in China. Medicine (Baltimore) 2017;96:e7668. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28796048.  
87. Prescribing information for sunitinib malate capsules for oral use. 
2021. Available at: 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2021/021938s039l
bledt.pdf  Accessed June 28, 2022.  
88. Prescribing information for regorafenib tablets, for oral use. 2020. 
Available at: https://tinyurl.com/2p8x5r37 Accessed June 28, 2022.  
89. Ben- Ami E, Barysauskas CM, von Mehren M, et al. Long -term follow-
up results of the multicenter phase II trial of regorafenib in patients with 
metastatic and/or unresectable GI stromal tumor after failure of standard 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy. A nn Oncol 2016;27:1794- 1799. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27371698.  
90. Ganjoo KN, Villalobos VM, Kamaya A, et al. A multicenter phase II 
study of pazopanib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal 
tumors (GIST) following failure of at least imatinib and sunitinib. Ann Oncol 
2014;25:236 -240. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24356634 . 
91. Prescribing information for pazopanib tablets for oral use. 2021. Available at: https://tinyurl.com/3yv9ueze . Accessed June 28, 2022.  
92. Yebra M, Bhargava S, Kumar A, et al. Establishment of patient -derived 
succinate dehydrogenase- deficient gastrointestinal stromal tumor models 
for predicting therapeutic response. Clin Cancer Res 2022;28:187- 200. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34426440.  
93. Lee JH, Shin SJ, Choe EA, et al. Tropomyosin- related kinase fusions 
in gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Cancers (Basel) 2022;14. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35681640 . 
94. Brenca M, Rossi S, Polano M, et al. Transcriptome sequencing 
identifies ETV6- NTRK3 as a gene fusion involved in GIST. J Pathol 
2016;238:543 -549. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26606880 . 95. Shi E, Chmielecki J, Tang CM, et al. FGFR1 and NTRK3 actionable 
alterations in "Wild- Type" gastrointestinal stromal tumors. J Transl Med 
2016;14:339. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27974047 . 
96. Prescribing information for larotrectinib Available at: 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2021/210861s006l
bl.pdf . Accessed July 5, 2022.  
97. Prescribing information for entrectinib capsules for oral use. Available at: 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2021/212725s005l
bl.pdf . Accessed July 5, 2022.  
98. Drilon A, Laetsch TW, Kummar S, et al. Efficacy of larotrectinib in TRK 
fusion- positive cancers in adults and children. N Engl J Med 
2018;378:731 -739. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29466156 . 
99. Doebele RC, Drilon A, Paz -Ares L, et al. Entrectinib in patients with 
advanced or metastatic NTRK fusion- positive solid tumours: integrated 
analysis of three phase 1 -2 trials. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:271 -282. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31838007.  
100. Hostein I, Faur N, Primois C, et al. BRAF mutation status in gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Am J Clin Pathol 2010;133:141 -148. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20023270.  
101. Maertens O, Prenen H, Debiec -Rychter M, et al. Molecular 
pathogenesis of multiple gastrointestinal stromal tumors in NF1 patients. 
Hum Mol Genet 2006;15:1015- 1023. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16461335 . 
102. Belinsky MG, Rink L, Cai KQ, et al. Somatic loss of function 
mutations in neurofibromin 1 and MYC associated factor X genes 
identified by exome -wide sequencing in a wild- type GIST case. BMC 
Cancer 2015;15:887. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26555092 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-28 103. Burgoyne AM, De Siena M, Alkhuziem M, et al. Duodenal -jejunal 
flexure GI stromal tumor frequently heralds somatic NF1 and notch 
pathway mutations. JCO Precis Oncol 2017;2017. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29938249 . 
104. Charo LM, Burgoyne AM, Fanta PT, et al. A novel PRKAR1B -BRAF 
fusion in gastrointestinal stromal tumor guides adjuvant treatment decision- making during pregnancy. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2018;16:238 -
242. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29523662 . 
105. Dabrafenib– trametinib combination approved for solid tumors with 
BRAF mutations. 2022. Available at: https://www.cancer.gov/news -
events/cancer -currents -blog/2022/fda -dabrafenib- trametinib -braf-solid-
tumors . Accessed August 16, 2022.  
106. Heinrich MC, Maki RG, Corless CL, et al. Primary and secondary 
kinase genotypes correlate with the biological and clinical activity of 
sunitinib in imatinib -resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumor. J Clin Oncol 
2008;26:5352 -5359. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18955458 . 
107. Antonescu CR, Besmer P, Guo T, et al. Acquired resistance to 
imatinib in gastrointestinal stromal tumor occurs through secondary gene 
mutation. Clin Cancer Res 2005;11:4182- 4190. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15930355 . 
108. Heinrich MC, Corless CL, Blanke CD, et al. Molecular correlates of 
imatinib resistance in gastrointestinal stromal tumors. J Clin Oncol 
2006;24:4764 -4774. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16954519 . 
109. Wardelmann E, Merkelbach- Bruse S, Pauls K, et al. Polyclonal 
evolution of multiple secondary KIT mutations in gastrointestinal stromal 
tumors under treatment with imatinib mesylate. Clin Cancer Res 
2006;12:1743 -1749. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16551858 . 
110. Desai J, Shankar S, Heinrich MC, et al. Clonal evolution of resistance 
to imatinib in patients with metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Clin Cancer Res 2007;13:5398- 5405. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17875769 . 
111. Patel S, Zalcberg JR. Optimizing the dose of imatinib for treatment of 
gastrointestinal stromal tumours: lessons from the phase 3 trials. Eur J 
Cancer 2008;44:501 -509. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18234488 . 
112. Goodman VL, Rock EP, Dagher R, et al. Approval summary: sunitinib 
for the treatment of imatinib refractory or intolerant gastrointestinal stromal 
tumors and advanced renal cell carcinoma. Clin Cancer Res 
2007;13:1367 -1373. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17332278 . 
113. Gajiwala KS, Wu JC, Christensen J, et al. KIT kinase mutants show 
unique mechanisms of drug resistance to imatinib and sunitinib in 
gastrointestinal stromal tumor patients. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 
2009;106:1542 -1547. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19164557 . 
114. Guo T, Hajdu M, Agaram NP, et al. Mechanisms of sunitinib resistance in gastrointestinal stromal tumors harboring KITAY502- 3ins 
mutation: an in vitro mutagenesis screen for drug resistance. Clin Cancer Res 2009;15:6862- 6870. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19861442 . 
115. Nishida T, Takahashi T, Nishitani A, et al. Sunitinib- resistant 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors harbor cis -mutations in the activation loop 
of the KIT gene. Int J Clin Oncol 2009;14:143- 149. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19390946 . 
116. Demetri GD, Reichardt P, Kang YK, et al. Efficacy and safety of regorafenib for advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours after failure of 
imatinib and sunitinib (GRID): an international, multicentre, randomised, 
placebo- controlled, phase 3 trial. Lan cet 2013;381:295- 302. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23177515 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-29 117. Prescribing information for ripretinib tablets for oral use. Available at: 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2021/213973s001l
bl.pdf . Accessed July 5, 2022.  
118. Blay JY, Serrano C, Heinrich MC, et al. Ripretinib in patients with 
advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours (INVICTUS): a double- blind, 
randomised, placebo- controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:923-
934. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32511981 . 
119. Zalcberg JR, Heinrich MC, George S, et al. Clinical benefit of 
ripretinib dose escalation after disease progression in advanced 
gastrointestinal stromal tumor: An analysis of the INVICTUS study. 
Oncologist 2021;26:e2053- e2060. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34313371 . 
120. Kindler HL, Campbell NP, Wroblewski K, et al. Sorafenib (SOR) in 
patients (pts) with imatinib (IM) and sunitinib (SU) -resistant (RES) 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST): Final results of a University of Chicago Phase II Consortium trial [abstract] . J Clin Oncol 
2011;29(15_Suppl):Abstract 10009. Available at: 
http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/29/15_suppl/10009 . 
121. Park SH, Ryu MH, Ryoo BY, et al. Sorafenib in patients with metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors who failed two or more prior 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors: a phase II study of Korean gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors study group. Invest New Drugs 20 12;30:2377 -2383. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22270258.  
122. Montemurro M, Gelderblom H, Bitz U, et al. Sorafenib as third - or 
fourth- line treatment of advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumour and 
pretreatment including both imatinib and sunitinib, and nilotinib: A 
retrospective analysis. Eur J Cancer 2013;49:1027 -1031. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23140824 . 
123. Kefeli U, Benekli M, Sevinc A, et al. Efficacy of sorafenib in patients 
with gastrointestinal stromal tumors in the third - or fourth- line treatment: A 
retrospective multicenter experience. Oncol Lett 2013;6:605 -611. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24137379.  124. Demetri GD, Casali PG, Blay JY, et al. A phase I study of single-
agent nilotinib or in combination with imatinib in patients with imatinib-
resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Clin Cancer Res 2009;15:5910-
5916. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19723647 . 
125. Montemurro M, Schoffski P, Reichardt P, et al. Nilotinib in the 
treatment of advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours resistant to both 
imatinib and sunitinib. Eur J Cancer 2009;45:2293 -2297. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19467857 . 
126. Sawaki A, Nishida T, Doi T, et al. Phase 2 study of nilotinib as third -
line therapy for patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Cancer 
2011;117:4633 -4641. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21456006 . 
127. Reichardt P, Blay JY, Gelderblom H, et al. Phase III study of nilotinib 
versus best supportive care with or without a TKI in patients with 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors resistant to or intolerant of imatinib and 
sunitinib. Ann Oncol 2012;23:1680 -1687. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22357255 . 
128. Cauchi C, Somaiah N, Engstrom PF, et al. Evaluation of nilotinib in advanced GIST previously treated with imatinib and sunitinib. Cancer 
Chemother Pharmacol 2012;69:977 -982. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22119758 . 
129. Blay JY, Shen L, Kang YK, et al. Nilotinib versus imatinib as first -line 
therapy for patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumours (ENESTg1): a randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 
2015;16:550 -560. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25882987 . 
130. Mir O, Cropet C, Toulmonde M, et al. Pazopanib plus best supportive care versus best supportive care alone in advanced gastrointestinal 
stromal tumours resistant to imatinib and sunitinib (PAZOGIST): a 
randomised, multicentre, open- label phase 2 trial . Lancet Oncol 
2016;17:632 -641. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27068858 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-30 131. Schoffski P, Mir O, Kasper B, et al. Activity and safety of the multi -
target tyrosine kinase inhibitor cabozantinib in patients with metastatic 
gastrointestinal stromal tumour after treatment with imatinib and sunitinib: 
European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer phase II 
trial 1317 'CaboGIST'. Eur J Cancer 2020;134:62 -74. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32470848 . 
132. Schoffski P, Reichardt P, Blay JY, et al. A phase I -II study of 
everolimus (RAD001) in combination with imatinib in patients with imatinib-resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Ann Oncol 2010;21:1990 -1998. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20507881.  
133. Dewaele B, Wasag B, Cools J, et al. Activity of dasatinib, a dual SRC/ABL kinase inhibitor, and IPI -504, a heat shock protein 90 inhibitor, 
against gastrointestinal stromal tumor -associated PDGFRAD842V 
mutation. Clin Cancer Res 2008;14:5749- 5758. Avai lable at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18794084 . 
134. Trent JC, Wathen K, von Mehren M, et al. A phase II study of dasatinib for patients with imatinib- resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumor 
(GIST) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2011;29(15_Suppl):Abstract 10006. 
Available at: 
http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/29/15_suppl/10006 . 
135. Schuetze SM, Bolejack V, Thomas DG, et al. Association of dasatinib 
with progression- free survival among patients with advanced 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors resistant to imatinib. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:814 -820. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29710216 . 
136. Smith BD, Kaufman MD, Lu WP, et al. Ripretinib (DCC -2618) is a 
switch control kinase inhibitor of a broad spectrum of oncogenic and drug -
resistant KIT and PDGFRA variants. Cancer Cell 2019;35:738- 751 e739. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31085175.  
137. Alkhuziem M, Burgoyne AM, Fanta PT, et al. The call of "the wild" -
type GIST: It's time for domestication. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 
2017;15:551 -554. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28476734 . 138. Kato S, Adashek JJ, Shaya J, et al. Concomitant MEK and cyclin 
gene alterations: Implications for response to targeted therapeutics. Clin 
Cancer Res 2021;27:2792- 2797. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33472910 . 
139. Committee ASoP, Evans JA, Chandrasekhara V, et al. The role of endoscopy in the management of premalignant and malignant conditions 
of the stomach. Gastrointest Endosc 2015;82:1- 8. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25935705 . 
140. Dematteo RP, Gold JS, Saran L, et al. Tumor mitotic rate, size, and 
location independently predict recurrence after resection of primary 
gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST). Cancer 2008;112:608 -615. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18076015.  
141. Gold JS, Gonen M, Gutierrez A, et al. Development and validation of 
a prognostic nomogram for recurrence- free survival after complete 
surgical resection of localised primary gastrointestinal stromal tumour: a retrospective analysis. Lancet Oncol 2009; 10:1045- 1052. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19793678 . 
142. Wang D, Zhang Q, Blanke CD, et al. Phase II trial of neoadjuvant/adjuvant imatinib mesylate for advanced primary and 
metastatic/recurrent operable gastrointestinal stromal tumors: long- term 
follow- up results of Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 0132. A nn Surg 
Oncol 2011. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22203182 . 
143. Raut CP, Posner M, Desai J, et al. Surgical management of 
advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors after treatment with targeted 
systemic therapy using kinase inhibitors. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:2325- 2331. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16710031.  
144. Rutkowski P, Nowecki Z, Nyckowski P, et al. Surgical treatment of 
patients with initially inoperable and/or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal 
tumors (GIST) during therapy with imatinib mesylate. J Surg Oncol 
2006;93:304 -311. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16496358 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 1.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2025 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors  
MS-31 145. Andtbacka RH, Ng CS, Scaife CL, et al. Surgical resection of 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors after treatment with imatinib. Ann Surg 
Oncol 2007;14:14 -24. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17072676 . 
146. DeMatteo RP, Maki RG, Singer S, et al. Results of tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy followed by surgical resection for metastatic 
gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Ann Surg 2007;245:347- 352. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17435539 . 
147. Gronchi A, Fiore M, Miselli F, et al. Surgery of residual disease 
following molecular -targeted therapy with imatinib mesylate in 
advanced/metastatic GIST. Ann Surg 2007;245:341- 346. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17435538 . 
148. Sym SJ, Ryu M -H, Lee J -L, et al. Surgical intervention following 
imatinib treatment in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal 
tumors (GISTs). J Surg Oncol 2008;98:27 -33. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18452195 . 
149. Mussi C, Ronellenfitsch U, Jakob J, et al. Post -imatinib surgery in 
advanced/metastatic GIST: is it worthwhile in all patients? Ann Oncol 
2010;21:403 -408. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19628568 . 
150. Yeh C -N, Chen T- W, Tseng J -H, et al. Surgical management in 
metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) patients after imatinib mesylate treatment. J Surg Oncol 2010;102:599 -603. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20976730 . 
151. Van Den Abbeele AD, Badawi RD, Manola J, et al. Effects of 
cessation of imatinib mesylate (IM) therapy in patients (pts) with IM -
refractory gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) as visualized by FDG -
PET scanning [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2004;22(14_Suppl):Abstract 3012. 
Available at: http://meeting.jco.org/cgi/content/abstract/22/14_suppl/3012 . 
152. Raut CP, Wang Q, Manola J, et al. Cytoreductive surgery in patients with metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor treated with sunitinib malate. Ann Surg Oncol 2010;17:407- 415. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19898902 . 
153. Fumagalli E, Coco P, Morosi C, et al. Rechallenge with Imatinib in 
GIST patients resistant to second or third line therapy [abstract]. 
Connective Tissue Oncology Society (CTOS) 15th Annual Meeting; 
2009:Abstract 39404. Available at: 
http://www.ctos.org/meeting/2009/program.asp . 
154. Kang YK, Ryu MH, Yoo C, et al. Resumption of imatinib to control 
metastatic or unresectable gastrointestinal stromal tumours after failure of 
imatinib and sunitinib (RIGHT): a randomised, placebo- controlled, phase 3 
trial. Lancet Oncol 2013;14:1175- 1182. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24140183 . 
155. Blay JY, Le Cesne A, Ray -Coquard I, et al. Prospective multicentric 
randomized phase III study of imatinib in patients with advanced 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors comparing interruption versus continuation 
of treatment beyond 1 year: the French Sarc oma Group. J Clin Oncol 
2007;25:1107 -1113. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17369574 . 
156. Le Cesne A, Ray -Coquard I, Bui BN, et al. Discontinuation of imatinib 
in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours after 3 years of 
treatment: an open -label multicentre randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet 
Oncol 2010;11:942 -949. Available at : 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20864406 . 
157. Patrikidou A, Chabaud S, Ray -Coquard I, et al. Influence of imatinib 
interruption and rechallenge on the residual disease in patients with advanced GIST: results of the BFR14 prospective French Sarcoma Group 
randomised, phase III trial. Annals of Oncology 2013;24:1087 -1093. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23175622.  
 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:39:09 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.