Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025 — January 14, 2025
ContinueNCCN.org
NCCN recognizes the importance of clinical trials and encourages participation when applicable and available. 
Trials should be designed to maximize inclusiveness and broad representative enrollment.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Continue
NCCN Guidelines Panel Disclosuresξ Bone marrow
transplantation
ϖ Dermatology
Ω Gynecologic oncology
‡ Hematology/Hematology 
oncology
F Infectious diseases
Þ Internal medicine
† Medical oncology≠ Pathology
¥ Patient advocacy
Σ Pharmacology
§ Radiotherapy/Radiation 
oncology
¶ Surgery/Surgical oncology
* Discussion Writing 
Committee MemberNCCN
Deborah Freedman-Cass, PhD
Ryan Schonfeld, BA*Erin Reid, MD/Co-chair ‡ 
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
*Gita Suneja, MD/Co-chair §  
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of Utah
Borislav Alexiev, MD ≠  
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer  
Center of Northwestern University
Richard F. Ambinder, MD, PhD †  
Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center
Kevin Ard, MD, MPH F Þ 
Mass General Cancer Center
Robert Baiocchi, MD, PhD †  
The Ohio State University Comprehensive 
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  
and Solove Research Institute
Thomas Campbell, MD F 
University of Colorado Cancer Center
Evie Carchman, MD ¶ 
University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center
Stuart Cohen, MD F 
UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center
Mark Dickson, MD † 
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center 
Gregory Eschenauer, PharmD Σ F  
University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center
Gaurav Goyal, MD † ‡ Þ 
O'Neal Comprehensive Cancer Center at UABAjay Gupta, MD ‡ 
Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center
Neel K. Gupta, MD ‡  
Stanford Cancer Institute
David H. Henry, MD ‡ 
Abramson Cancer Center  
at the University of Pennsylvania
Amy Jones, MD † 
UT Southwestern Simmons  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Stephen Kimani, MD, MSc † Þ  
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of Utah
Ann Klopp, MD, PhD §  
The University of Texas  
MD Anderson Cancer Center
Mark Korpics, MD § 
The UChicago Medicine  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Ann S. LaCasce, MD, MMSc † 
Dana-Farber/Brigham and  
Women's Cancer Center
Chi Lin, MD, PhD §  
Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
Toby Maurer, MD ϖ  
Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon 
Comprehensive Cancer Center 
Manoj P. Menon, MD, MPH †  
Fred Hutchinson Cancer CenterDavid Morgan, MD ‡ ξ 
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center
Nitya Nathwani, MD ‡  
City of Hope National Medical Center
David Palm, MS ¥ 
AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG)
Gyorgy Paragh, MD, PhD ϖ  
Roswell Park Comprehensive  
Cancer Center 
Henry S. Park, MD, MPH § 
Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital
Lee Ratner, MD, PhD † Þ  
Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-  
Jewish Hospital and Washington  
University School of Medicine
Stacey Rizza, MD F 
Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center
Julian Sanchez, MD ¶  
Moffitt Cancer Center
John Schorge, MD Ω  
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital/The 
University of Tennessee Health Science Center
John Timmerman, MD † 
UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
Chia-Ching J. Wang, MD † ‡ 
UCSF Helen Diller Family  
Comprehensive Cancer CenterPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way . The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may 
not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2025.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
NCCN Kaposi Sarcoma Panel Members
Summary of Guidelines Updates
• Diagnosis and Workup (KS-1)
• Limited Cutaneous Disease (KS-2)
• Advanced Cutaneous, Oral, Visceral, or Nodal Disease (KS-3)
• Surveillance (KS-4)
• Staging Classification and Response Definitions for KS (KS-A)
• Principles and Goals of Therapy (KS-B)
• Principles of Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome (IRIS)  (KS-C)
• Local Therapy (KS-D)
• Principles of Radiation Therapy (KS-E) 
• Systemic Therapy (KS-F)
• Abbreviations (ABBR-1)Find an NCCN Member Institution: 
https://www.nccn.org/home/member-
institutions.
NCCN Categories of Evidence and 
Consensus:  All recommendations are 
category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
See NCCN Categories of Evidence  
and Consensus .
NCCN Categories of Preference:  
All recommendations are considered 
appropriate.
See NCCN Categories of Preference.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Kaposi Sarcoma from Version 2.2024 include:
Global
• References were updated throughout the Guidelines.
• "AIDS" has been replaced by "HIV" where appropriate.
KS-1
• Diagnosis
Essential, bullet 1 revised: Review of all adequate  slides with at least one  from paraffin block representative of the tumor by a pathologist with expertise in the 
diagnosis of Kaposi sarcoma.
• Workup
Essential
 ◊Bullet 1, History and physical examination
 –Sub-bullet 1 revised: Including history of additional immunosuppression  immunosuppressive disease or therapy , such as transplant/local or systemic 
glucocorticoids.
 –Sub-bullet 2 revised: Including complete skin, oral, and lymph node examinations, and evaluation  documentation  of edema.
Essential  Useful in selected cases
 ◊Bullet 1 moved from Essential: In patients of childbearing potential if chemotherapy or radiation therapy (R T) planned: pregnancy testing.
 ◊Bullet 9 added: For PWH, begin discussions regarding the possible need to modify ART due to DDIs and the need to involve an HIV specialist in care decisions. 
See Principles of Systemic Therapy and Drug-Drug Interactions (HIV-B) in the NCCN Guidelines for Patients with HIV.
• Footnote a, second sentence modified: Involvement of an infectious disease (ID)  HIV specialist to evaluate for coexisting OI is appropriate, especially with advanced 
immunosuppression.
KS-2
• First line therapy if symptomatic and/or cosmetically bothersome, options revised: Topicals or Intralesional chemotherapy or  Local therapy  or RT Local exicision or 
Cryotherapy  or Systemic therapy or Clinical trial.
• Footnote h revised: All PWH who have limited cutaneous disease that is symptomatic (eg, edema, oral KS, or other manifestation that interfere with normal functions 
or activities) and/or cosmetically bothersome should receive ART with or without another first-line therapy.  Initiation of ART may result in immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) within 3–6 months; IRIS is characterized by marked lesional swelling, increased tenderness, and peripheral edema. Therefore, systemic 
KS-directed therapy should be initiated as soon as possible in all PWH who have symptomatic KS (eg, edema, oral KS, or other manifestation that interfere with 
normal functions or activities). In patients with limited cutaneous disease, KS-associated IRIS is an indication for urgent initiation of systemic KS therapy; signs of 
past IRIS may also be an indication for earlier initiation of systemic KS therapy. ART should not be delayed or discontinued unless life-threatening IRIS develops. 
Reconstitution of immune function is important for obtaining and maintaining control or remission of KS. See Principles of Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory 
Syndrome (IRIS) (KS-C) (Also for KS-3)
• Footnote p, second sentence revised: If KS, evaluate for inadequate HIV control /ART failure  as a contributing factor to inadequate KS control and address possible 
change in ART in conjunction with an HIV specialist. (Also for KS-3)
KS-3
• Advanced cutaneous, oral, visceral, or nodal disease, bottom pathway revised: not immediately  eligible for systemic therapy.
First-line therapy, bottom pathway revised: Medical optimization and Consider  RT and Continue or initiate ART for PWH.
Not eligible for systemic therapy, pathway revised: Consider RT or Best supportive care.
Footnote r modified: Systemic therapy is preferred over RT as first-line therapy and relapsed/refractory therapy for disseminated disease whenever systemic therapy 
is feasible. Although uncommon, considering  performance status and medical  comorbidities may preclude the use of upfront chemotherapy in some patients. 
Reversible medical issues should be addressed (eg, active infection requiring antibiotic or antiviral treatment; high-level HIV viremia requiring initiation/modification of 
ART) so that systemic therapy can be delivered as quickly as possible. If poor performance status is because of KS, systemic therapy should be considered because 
it may lead to an improvement in performance status. 
UPDATESContinuedUpdates in Version 2.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Kaposi Sarcoma from Version 1.2025 include:
KS-F 3 of 4
• Footnote k added: Nivolumab and hyaluronidase-nvhy subcutaneous injection may be substituted for IV nivolumab. Nivolumab and hyaluronidase-nvhy has different 
dosing and administration instructions compared to IV nivolumab.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESKS-4
• Surveillance
Bullet 1, quaternary bullet 2 revised: Including complete skin and oral examinations, and documentation  evaluation and monitoring of edema
Bullet 2 modified: Photography of oral, conjunctival, and cutaneous lesions (with reference unit of measure in the picture) for documentation  evaluation  of extent of 
disease if change in disease is noted.
KS-D•Local Therapy
Topical, bullet 1, sub-bullet revised: Apply 3–4
 2 times daily to affected skin sites ; increase to 3–4 times daily if tolerated .
Cryotherapy, bullet added: Cryotherapy should be done by clinicians with expertise in cutaneous cancer cryotherapy.Last header revised: For local control of small, symptomatic lesions (ie, ≤1 cm)
, the following may be considered: for local control of symptomatic lesions
◊Bullet 1 revised: Marginal  excision
◊Bullet 2 added: Electrodesiccation and curettage
◊Bullet 3, sub-bullet revised and moved above intralesional chemotherapy options: Treatment schemas are listed below as a guide.  Other treatment schemas have  
been studied, with a variety of vinblastine chemotherapy  concentrations, doses, administration volumes, frequencies of administration, and total doses/volumes  
administered. See Discussion for additional references and information.
◊Bullet 3, sub-bullet 2 added: Bleomycin as an option for intralesional chemotherapy
◊Bullet 3, sub-bullet 2, sub-bullet added: 1.5 to 3 units/mL solution with a dose of 0.5 unit per 0.5 cm2 of lesion (volume given depends on the size of the lesion)  
every 3 to 4 weeks until response
◊Footnote a added: For larger lesions when systemic therapy is not feasible or effective, radiotherapy is preferred over excision.
• Footnote b added: Wide excision is not indicated.•Reference 4 added: Poignonec S, Lachiver LD, Lamas G, et al. Intralesional bleomycin for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated cutaneous Kaposi's
sarcoma. Arch Dermatol 1995;131:228.
KS-E•Principles of Radiation Therapy
General Treatment InformationTertiary bullet revised: Various dosing schemas may be used. Lower total doses are preferred for smaller and more superficial lesions and palliative situations . Higher 
doses may be preferred for more extensive, deeply invasive lesions,  or when a more durable local response is desired.
• Table: row 1, column 2 revised: 10.8
 9.6–14.4 Gy
•Footnote a added: BED is a measure of the radiosensitivity of the tissue, with BED10 denoting the estimated effective dose to rapidly growing tumor tissue and BED3
denoting the estimated dose to normal tissue (organs at risk).
KS-F (1 of 4)•Systemic Therapy
Subsequent systemic therapy options revised: (also for table on KS-F [2 of 4])
◊Headers removed:
–Preferred Regimen
–Other Recommended Regimens
–Preference stratification for subsequent therapy options was changed.
◊Useful in certain circumstances, regimens revised:
◊Nivolumab ±  ipilimumab + nivolumab (for classic KS)
◊Pembrolizumab (for endemic and classic KS)
• Footnote g, second sentence added: If the patient has a history of KSHV
-associated diseases, ICIs should be used with caution and with consideration of more
frequent monitoring for signs and symptoms of KICS or MCD. See NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in People with HIV , Principles of Systemic Therapy and Drug-Drug
Interactions. (Also for KS-F [3 of 4])
•Footnote removed: Pomalidomide has been U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for the treatment of adult patients with AIDS-related KS after failure of
highly active ART or in patients with KS with no HIV.
KS-F (2 of 4)•Useful in certain circumstances, regimen and dosing schedule added: Nivolumab, 480 mg IV every 4 weeks.Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Kaposi Sarcoma from Version 2.2024 include:PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
KS-1DIAGNOSIS WORKUP
ESSENTIAL:
• Review of adequate slides from 
paraffin block representative of 
the tumor by a pathologist with 
expertise in the diagnosis of 
Kaposi sarcoma (KS) 
Rebiopsy if non-diagnostic
• Histopathology review of 
adequate biopsy (ie, skin 
punch, incisional, excisional)
• Adequate immunophenotyping 
to establish diagnosis
• Immunohistochemistry (IHC) 
panel: Kaposi sarcoma-
associated herpesvirus (KSHV; 
human herpesvirus 8 [HHV-8]), 
LANA-1
USEFUL IN CERTAIN 
CIRCUMSTANCES: 
• IHC: CD31 and CD34 if unclear 
whether the tumor has a 
vascular origin
• Encourage additional biopsy 
of nodal or visceral sites 
if a coexisting disorder is 
suspected (ie, infection, 
lymphoma, multicentric 
Castleman disease [MCD])ESSENTIAL:
• History and physical examination
Including history of additional  immunosuppressive disease or therapy, 
such as transplant/local or systemic glucocorticoids 
Including complete skin, oral, and lymph node examinations, and 
evaluation of edema
• Complete blood count (CBC), differential, and comprehensive metabolic 
panel
• Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) screening and/or diagnostic testinga
• Photography of oral, conjunctival, and cutaneous lesions (with reference 
unit of measure in the picture) for evaluation and monitoring of extent of 
disease
USEFUL IN SELECTED CASES:
• In patients of childbearing potential if chemotherapy or radiation therapy 
(RT) planned: pregnancy testing 
• Evaluationa for suspected opportunistic infections (OIs)  
• In the setting of advanced cutaneous, oral, visceral, or nodal involvement: 
stool hemoccult
• In the setting of advanced cutaneous, oral, visceral, or nodal disease, or any 
pulmonary symptoms: chest x-rayb
• If unexplained pulmonary symptoms or abnormalities on chest x-ray: chest 
CT with contrastb and bronchoscopy
• If gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms or positive hemoccult: abdomen/
pelvis CT with contrastb or MRI with and without contrastb and 
esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)/colonoscopy
• If concerns for coexisting KSHV-associated inflammatory cytokine 
syndrome (KICS), MCD, or KSHV+ lymphoma, or other KSHV-associated 
disease: FDG-PET/CT  scanb and/or lab workupc
• If anthracycline planned or suspected pericardial effusion: transthoracic 
echocardiogram
• For PWH, begin discussions regarding the possible need to modify ART 
due to DDIs and the need to involve an HIV specialist in care decisions. See 
Principles of Systemic Therapy and Drug-Drug Interactions (HIV-B) in the 
NCCN Guidelines for Patients with HIV .Limited 
cutaneous 
disease
a All patients who are HIV seropositive should have recent T-cell subsets, including 
quantitative CD4+ T-cell count and HIV viral load to assess immune function and HIV 
control (Discussion ). Involvement of an HIV specialist to evaluate fo r coexisting OI is 
appropriate, especially with advanced immunosuppression.
b Imaging should be directed by symptoms or findings concerning for visceral or bone 
involvement as well as coexisting KICS, MCD, or KSHV+ lymphoma and can include 
whole body FDG-PET/CT. See NCCN Guidelines for B-Cell Lymphomas (CD-1).KS STAGEd
First-Line 
Therapy 
(KS-2)
Advanced 
cutaneous, 
oral, visceral, 
or nodal 
diseaseFirst-Line 
Therapy 
(KS-3)
c Useful in patients with clinical features (ie, fever, dyspnea, effusions) 
concerning for KICS or KSHV-associated MCD: C-reactive protein, KSHV 
serum viral load, serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP), interleukin (IL)-6, 
or IL-10.
d See Staging Classification for KS (KS-A 1 of 2) and Response Definitions 
for KS (KS-A 2 of 2).PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
KS-2Limited 
cutaneousf,gSymptomatic 
and/or
cosmetically 
bothersomeStable 
disease or 
Response
Progressive 
diseasepRelapsed or 
progressive 
diseasep,qLimited
cutaneous
Advanced 
cutaneous, 
oral, 
visceral, 
or nodal 
disease 
(KS-3)
d See Staging Classification for KS (KS-A 1 of 2) and Response Definitions for KS (KS-A 2 of 2).
e Oncology and HIV clinicians, along with both an oncology pharmacist and HIV pharmacist, if available, 
should review proposed cancer therapy, supportive care medications, and ART for possible drug-drug 
interactions (DDIs) and overlapping toxicities prior to initiation. Co-management by an o ncologist and 
an HIV clinician is recommended  for the duration of therapy. See NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in 
People with HIV .
f Principles and Goals of Therapy (KS-B).
g There is no agreed upon definition for limited cutaneous disease, but some trials have used inclusion 
criteria such as 5 index lesions or <5% body surface area involvement as the threshold. Clinical 
judgment is required. 
h Initiation of ART may result in immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) within 3–6 
months; IRIS is characterized by marked lesional swelling, increased tenderness, and peripheral 
edema. Therefore, systemic KS-directed therapy should be initiated as soon as possible in all PWH 
who have symptomatic KS (eg, edema, oral KS, or other manifestation that interfere with normal 
functions or activities). In patients with limited cutaneous disease, KS-associated IRIS is an indication 
for urgent initiation of systemic KS therapy; signs of past IRIS may also be an indication for earlier 
initiation of systemic KS therapy. ART should not be delayed or discontinued unless life-threatening 
IRIS develops. Reconstitution of immune function is important for obtaining and maintaining control or 
remission of KS. See Principles of Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome (IRIS) (KS-C) .Asymptomatic 
and 
cosmetically 
acceptableLocal therapyl
or
RTf,m
or
Systemic therapyn
or
Clinical trialo
Observek
and 
Start or continue  
antiretroviral 
therapy (ART)h,i,j 
for people with 
HIV (PWH)Symptomatic and/or cosmetically bothersome 
or progressive disease 
(See above)FIRST-LINE 
THERAPYfRESPONSEdRELAPSED/REFRACTORY 
THERAPYKS STAGEd,e
Observe
(KS-4)
and 
Continue 
ARTh,i for 
PWH
No HIVARTh,i,jPWH
i Glucocorticoids in any formulation should be avoided due to their association 
with KS progression. However, in cases of life-threatening conditions, their use 
may be considered.
j Patients who are only on ART should be reassessed within 4 weeks, particularly 
to monitor for KS-IRIS.
k Rapid progression during observation may be an indication for initiation of 
therapy.
l Local Therapy (KS-D).
m Principles of Radiation Therapy (KS-E). 
n Systemic Therapy (KS-F). 
o clinicaltrials.gov .
p If progressive, relapsed, or refractory disease, consider biopsy of lesions since 
they may be areas of post-inflammatory pigment and/or mimickers of KS. If 
KS, evaluate for inadequate HIV control as a contributing factor to inadequate 
KS control and address possible change in ART in conjunction with an HIV 
specialist. See NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in People with HIV.
q If after initial response to therapy, KS relapses or progresses, repeat use of 
previously effective therapy may be considered, particularly if response was 
durable.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
KS-3Advanced 
cutaneous, 
oral, visceral, 
or nodal 
diseasefSystemic 
therapyn
or
Clinical trialo
and 
Continue or 
initiate ARTh,i,j 
for PWHResponse
Stable or progressive 
diseasepRelapsed or 
progressive 
diseasepContinue ARTh,i for PWH
and 
Clinical trialo 
or
Relapsed/Refractory 
Disease Therapyp (KS-F)
or
RTf,m,rObserve 
(KS-4)
and
Continue 
ARTh,i for 
PWHFIRST-LINE 
THERAPYfRESPONSEdRELAPSED/REFRACTORY 
THERAPYKS STAGEd,e
d See Staging Classification for KS (KS-A 1 of 2) and Response Definitions for KS (KS-A 2 of 2).e Oncology and HIV clinicians, along with both an oncology pharmacist and HIV pharmacist, if 
available, should review proposed cancer therapy, supportive care medications, and ART for 
possible DDIs and overlapping toxicities prior to initiation. Co-management by o ncologist and 
HIV clinician is recommended  for the duration of therapy. See NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in 
People with HIV. f Principles and Goals of Therapy (KS-B).h Initiation of ART may result in IRIS within 3–6 months; IRIS is characterized by marked lesional 
swelling, increased tenderness, and peripheral edema. Therefore, systemic KS-directed 
therapy should be initiated as soon as possible in all PWH who have symptomatic KS (eg, 
edema, oral KS, or other manifestation that interfere with normal functions or activities). In 
patients with limited cutaneous disease, KS-associated IRIS is an indication for urgent initiation 
of systemic KS therapy; signs of past IRIS may also be an indication for earlier initiation of 
systemic KS therapy. ART should not be delayed or discontinued unless life-threatening IRIS 
develops. Reconstitution of immune function is important for obtaining and maintaining control 
or remission of KS. See Principles of Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome (IRIS) 
(KS-C).Eligible for 
systemic 
therapy
Not 
immediately 
eligible for 
systemic 
therapyrReassess 
for
eligibility 
for
systemic 
therapyjEligible for 
systemic therapy
Not eligible for 
systemic therapySee above
Consider RT 
or 
Best supportive careMedical 
optimizationr
and
Consider RTf,m,r 
and 
Continue  or initiate 
ARTh,i,j for PWH
i Glucocorticoids in any formulation should be avoided due to their association with 
KS progression. However, in cases of life-threatening conditions, their use may be 
considered.j Patients who are only on ART should be reassessed within 4 weeks, particularly to 
monitor for KS-IRIS. m Principles of Radiation Therapy (KS-E).n Systemic Therapy (KS-F).o clinical trials.gov .p If progressive, relapsed, or refractory disease, consider biopsy of lesions since they 
may be areas of post-inflammatory pigment and/or mimickers of KS. If KS, evaluate 
for inadequate HIV control as a contributing factor to inadequate KS control and 
address possible change in ART in conjunction with an HIV specialist.  See NCCN 
Guidelines for Cancer in People with HIV.r Systemic therapy is preferred over RT as first-line therapy and relapsed/refractory 
therapy for disseminated disease whenever systemic therapy is feasible. Although 
uncommon, performance status and medical comorbidities  may preclude the use 
of upfront chemotherapy in some patients. Reversible medical issues should be 
addressed (eg, active infection requiring antibiotic or antiviral treatment; high-level 
HIV viremia requiring initiation/modification of ART) so that systemic therapy can 
be delivered as quickly as possible. If poor performance status is because of KS, 
systemic therapy should be considered because it may lead to an improvement in 
performance status. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
KS-4SURVEILLANCE
• For patients not requiring active therapy and with no signs of progression 
Follow-up periodically based on response to therapy and, if applicable, degree of HIV viremia and immune reconstitution
 ◊History and physical examination
 –Including history of additional immunosuppression such as transplant/glucocorticoids 
 –Including complete skin and oral examinations, and evaluation and monitoring of edema
 ◊CBC, differential, comprehensive metabolic panel 
 ◊PWH  
 –T-cell subsets (CD4+ T-cell count) and HIV viral load
 –Assess ART compliance 
• Photography of oral, conjunctival, and cutaneous lesions (with reference unit of measure in the picture) for evaluation of extent of disease 
if change in disease is noted
• If signs and symptoms concerning for visceral involvement or prior to new therapy if progression/refractory disease or if change in disease 
is noted, the following are indicated depending on the clinical circumstancesb:
Evaluation for suspected OIs
In the setting of advanced cutaneous, oral, visceral, or nodal involvement: stool hemoccult
In the setting of advanced cutaneous, oral, visceral, or nodal disease: chest x-rayb
If unexplained pulmonary symptoms or abnormalities on chest x-ray: chest CT with contrastb and bronchoscopy 
If GI symptoms or positive hemoccult: abdomen/pelvis CTb with contrast or MRI with and without contrastb and EGD/colonoscopy 
If concerns for coexisting KICS, MCD, or KSHV+ lymphoma, or other KSHV-associated disease:  FDG-PET/CTb and/or lab workupc 
The diagnosis of KICS ideally requires excisional biopsy of lymphadenopathy to exclude MCD, if feasible
• As KSHV is not eradicated with treatment of KS, the risk for future KS persists even after complete remission.
• For PWH, optimization and monitoring of HIV control and immune function is important to minimize this risk. This risk depends on immune 
function and generally decreases with immune reconstitution. However, KS can persist, relapse, or present even in the setting of normal 
values of T-cell subsets. Less frequent (every 6–12 mo) oncology monitoring may be appropriate for selected patients with undetectable HIV 
viral loads, normal T-cell subsets, and stable KS for 2 or more years as long as the patient has regular follow-up with an HIV provider.
b Imaging should be directed by symptoms or findings concerning for visceral or bone involvement as well as coexisting KICS, MCD, or KSHV+ lymphoma and can 
include whole body FDG-PET/CT . See NCCN Guidelines for B-Cell Lymphomas (CD-1) .
c Useful in patients with clinical features (ie, fever, dyspnea, effusions) concerning for KICS or KSHV-associated MCD: C-reactive protein, KSHV serum viral load, 
SPEP, IL-6, or IL-10.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
KS-A 
1 OF 2STAGING CLASSIFICATION FOR KSa
Good risk (all of the following) Poor risk (any of the following)
Tumor, T T0: Confined to skin and/or lymph nodes 
and/or minimal oral disease (non-nodular 
KS confined to palate)T1: Tumor-associated edema or ulceration 
Extensive oral KS 
Gastrointestinal KS 
KS in organs other than lymph nodes
Immune system, I1I0: CD4+ T-cell count ≥150/μL I1: CD4+ T-cell count <150/μL
Systemic disease, S S0: No history of opportunistic infection or 
thrush 
No “B” symptoms2 
Karnofsky Performance Status ≥70S1: History of opportunistic infection and/or thrush  
“B” symptoms present  
Karnofsky Performance Status <70  
Other HIV-related illness (eg, neurologic disease, 
lymphoma)
1 I stage has less prognostic value than T or S stages in patients on ART therapy.
2 “B” symptoms are unexplained fever, night sweats, >10% involuntary weight loss, or diarrhea persisting > 2 weeks.
a Adapted from Krown SE, Metroka C, Wernz JC. Kaposi’s sarcoma in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome: a proposal for uniform evaluation, response, 
and staging criteria. AIDS Clinical Trials Group Oncology Committee. J Clin Oncol 1989;7:1201-1207.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Complete response 
(CR)The absence of any detectable residual disease, including tumor-associated (local) edema, persisting 
for at least 4 weeks. Patients known to have had visceral disease should have restaging with 
appropriate endoscopic or radiographic procedures relevant to sites involved at baseline.
Partial response 
(PR)No new mucocutaneous lesions, visceral sites of involvement, or the appearance or worsening of 
tumor-associated edema or effusions; AND
A 50% or greater decrease in the number of all previous existing lesions lasting for at least 4 weeks; 
OR
Complete flattening of at least 50% of all previously raised lesions (ie, 50% of all previously nodular 
or plaque-like lesions become macules); 
     OR
A 50% decrease in the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular diameters of at least 5 
measurable lesions.
NOTE: When there is residual tumor-associated edema or effusion, but disease otherwise meets criteria 
for complete response, response should be classified as "partial."
Stable disease (SD) Any response that does not meet the criteria for progressive disease or PR. 
Progressive disease 
(PD)An increase of >25% in the size of pre-existing lesions and/or the appearance of new lesions or sites 
of disease and/or a change in the character of the skin or oral lesions from macular to plaque-like 
or nodular of >25%. If new or increasing tumor-associated edema or effusion develop, disease is 
considered to be progressive.RESPONSE DEFINITIONS FOR KSa
KS-A 
2 OF 2a Adapted from Krown SE, Metroka C, Wernz JC. Kaposi’s sarcoma in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome: a proposal for uniform evaluation, response, 
and staging criteria. AIDS Clinical Trials Group Oncology Committee. J Clin Oncol 1989;7:1201-1207.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
KS-BPRINCIPLES AND GOALS OF THERAPY
Principles of Therapy :
• Individual KS lesions may be distinct clones that arise due to the common risk factors of immunosuppression and persistent KSHV infection 
as opposed to metastases. Treatment of existing disease therefore may not prevent occurrence of future lesions. 
• Optimization of immune function and avoidance of additional immunosuppression are critical to prevention of additional KS lesions and 
maintenance of response to therapy. For HIV-related KS, reconstitution of immune function and maintenance of viral suppression are 
important. Also, it is important to work with an HIV specialist to optimize suppression of HIV and reconstitution of immune function with ART. 
Important examples of iatrogenic immunosuppression, which may promote KS, include not only systemic but local glucocorticoids (ie, 
inhaled, topical, intra-articular). Note that KS may flare in a remote location from the site of local glucocorticoids. 
 ◊Glucocorticoids in any formulation should be avoided due to their association with KS progression.1-3 However, in cases of life-
threatening conditions, their use may be considered. Proceed with caution if using glucocorticoids or consult an HIV or KS specialist.
Patients requiring rituximab for treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) with coexisting KS or MCD may develop flares of KS or incident 
KS. This may be mitigated by use of concurrent chemotherapy active against both KS and disease for which rituximab is prescribed (ie, 
doxorubicin).
• Persons with HIV -related KS, especially those with advanced immunosuppression, are at increased risk of OIs marrow suppression with 
neutropenic fever, or thrombocytopenic bleeding and should be monitored closely. It is important to collaborate with an HIV specialist to 
ensure adequate OI prophylaxis appropriate to CD4+ T-cell count (which may temporarily decrease with cytotoxic chemotherapy). Growth 
factor support may be needed to facilitate systemic therapy. 
• Lymphedema and soft tissue infections: KS is often complicated by lymphedema with increased risk of cellulitis and deep tissue infections 
in affected limbs. Risk of severe lymphedema and delayed wound healing may be increased after radiation. Refer to a lymphedema specialist.  
In the setting of advanced cutaneous disease, radiation should be reserved for circumstances when systemic therapy is not feasible with the 
goal of palliation or short-term disease management until systemic therapy may be delivered. Note that treatment responses may be delayed 
in the context of significant lymphedema.
Goals of Therapy :
• PWH with limited cutaneous disease that is asymptomatic and cosmetically acceptable may be observed whil e starting or continuing 
ART with optimization of immune function and HIV viral suppression as above. Remissions or stable disease may occur with ART and 
optimization of immune function and HIV viral suppression alone.
• Patients with symptomatic or cosmetically bothersome disease should use  minimally invasive and the least toxic therapy to control disease. 
When necessary, a l imited number of cycles of systemic therapy (eg, 3–6) may be sufficient for those initiating or re-initiating ART.
• Patients with advanced symptomatic cutaneous, visceral, nodal, or oral disease should be treated with systemic therapy with the goal of 
reducing or reversing symptoms, lymphedema, or threat to organ function. Complete remissions are rare. 
Treatment is typically continued until unacceptable toxicity or plateau in response; maintenance therapy beyond 2 cycles of systemic 
therapy after determination of plateau is not recommended. If response is then clinically acceptable, patients may be observed (while 
continuing ART, in PWH). Otherwise, alternative therapy should be initiated.
1 Fernandez-Sanchez M, Iglesias MC, Ablanedo-Terrazas Y, et al. Steroids are a risk factor for Kaposi's sarcoma-immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome and 
mortality in HIV infection. AIDS 2016;30:909-914.
2 Guo WX, Antakly T. AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma: evidence for direct stimulatory effect of glucocorticoid on cell proliferation. Am J Pathol 1995;146:727-734.
3 Volkow PF, Cornejo P, Zinser JW, et al. Life-threatening exacerbation of Kaposi's sarcoma after prednisone treatment for immune reconstitution inflammatory 
syndrome. AIDS 2008;22:663-665.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
KS-CPRINCIPLES OF IMMUNE RECONSTITUTION INFLAMMATORY SYNDROME (IRIS)
CLINICAL PRESENTATION/DEFINITION1
• IRIS is characterized by first presentation or paradoxical worsening of pre-existing KS infection following ART initiation.
• Typically occurs within 3 months of ART initiation, but possible to occur any time after starting ART.
• PWH with advanced KS not on ART at the time of presentation, should start systemic therapy as soon as possible after the initiation of ART 
to minimize the risk of severe KS-IRIS.
• The risk of IRIS is higher in patients with baseline low CD4 T-cell counts and high HIV viral loads.2
• Clinical manifestations may include development of new lesions or enlargement of existing lesions, worsening lymphadenopathy, or 
worsening edema. The clinical presentation of IRIS may be challenging to distinguish from the natural history of progressive disease.
• If IRIS is suspected, consult with an HIV specialist.
MANAGEMENT
• Treatment for KS-IRIS includes systemic chemotherapy and supportive measures; ART should not be discontinued.
• If the patient is on ART only: Symptomatic management; consider addition of systemic chemotherapy (see list of first-line options).
Consider thalidomide as an active agent against both KS and corticosteroid-refractory IRIS.
• If the patient is on ART and chemotherapy: Symptomatic management; consider modification of chemotherapy regimen if progressive.
• Avoid corticosteroids, which may exacerbate KS.
• Use of systemic chemotherapy for extensive disease prior to ART initiation may help prevent KS-IRIS, but this has not been systematically 
studied.
PROPOSED CRITERIA FOR DIAGNOSIS OF KS-IRIS3
KS-IRIS requires at least one major and one minor criterion:
Major Criteria
• New onset or enlargement of KS lesion and subsequent regression
• Painful lesions
Minor Criteria
• Decrease in plasma HIV RNA by >1 log10 copies/mL
• Increased blood CD4 T-cell count after ART
1 Letang E, Lewis JJ, Bower M, et al. Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome associated with Kaposi sarcoma: higher incidence and mortality in Africa than in 
the UK. AIDS 2013;27:1603-1613.
2 Panel on Antiretroviral Guidelines for Adults and Adolescents. Guidelines for the Use of Antiretroviral Agents in Adults and Adolescents with HIV. Department of 
Health and Human Services. Available at https://clinicalinfo.hiv.gov/en/guidelines/adult-and-adolescent-arv . Accessed 9/6/2022.
3 French MA, Price P, Stone SF. Immune restoration disease after antiretroviral therapy. AIDS 2004;18:1615-1627.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
LOCAL THERAPY
Footnotes
a For larger lesions when systemic therapy is not feasible or effective, radiotherapy is preferred over excision.
b Wide excision is not indicated.References
1 Bodsworth NJ, Bloch M, Bower M, et al. Phase III vehicle-controlled, multi-centered study of topical alitretinoin gel 0.1% in cutaneous AIDS-related Kaposi’s sarcoma. 
Am J Clin Dermatol 2001;2:77-87.
2 Schartz NEC, Chevret S, Paz C, et al. Imiquimod 5% cream for treatment of HIV -negative Kaposi’s sarcoma skin lesions: a phase I to II open-label trial in 17 patients. 
J Am Acad Dermatol 2008;58:585-591. 
3 Epstein JB. Treatment of oral Kaposi sarcoma with intralesional vinblastine. Cancer 1993;71:1722-1725.
4 Poignonec S, Lachiver LD, Lamas G, et al. Intralesional bleomycin for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma. Arch Dermatol 
1995;131:228. 
KS-DTopical
• Alitretinoin 0.1% gel1
Apply 2 times daily to affected skin sites; increase to 3–4 times daily if tolerated
• Imiquimod, 5% cream2
Apply one sachet to up to 20 cm2 of affected skin and cover with occlusive dressing for 8 hours three times per week; titrate frequency of 
application to effect and tolerability (up to once daily), with treatment breaks if tolerability issues occur .
Radiotherapya  
• Principles of Radiation Therapy (KS-E)
Cryotherapy
• Cryotherapy should be done by clinicians with expertise in cutaneous cancer cryotherapy.
For local control of small, symptomatic lesions, the following may be considered :
• Marginal excisionb
• Electrodesiccation and curettage 
• Intralesional chemotherapy 
 ◊Pain from injection is common and may persist for several days. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may be useful to relieve 
pain from injection. 
 ◊Intralesional chemotherapy to plantar and palmar surfaces might be useful in selected cases, but should be approached with caution.
 ◊Treatment schemas are listed below as a guide. Other treatment schemas have been studied, with a variety of chemotherapy 
concentrations, doses, administration volumes, frequencies of administration, and total doses/volumes administered. See Discussion for 
additional references and information.
Vinblastine3
 ◊0.2 mg/mL solution with a volume of 0.1 mL per 0.5 cm2 of lesion 
Bleomycin4
 ◊1.5 to 3 units/mL solution with a dose of 0.5 unit per 0.5 cm2 of lesion (volume given depends on the size of the lesion) every 3 to 4 weeks 
until response PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
KS-E• General Principles
For most skin lesions, electrons or superficial x-rays can be used to deliver optimal dosimetry and minimize dose to underlying structures. 
To ensure sufficient dose is delivered for deeper or larger lesions, conformal photon therapy or mixed photon-electron treatment plans 
may be used. Intensity-modulated RT (IMRT) with or without imag e guidance may be useful for large r, deeper disease, or disease located 
anatomically adjacent to critical structures.  
The use of bolus may be necessary to achieve adequate skin dose.
RT to plantar and palmar surfaces might be useful in selected cases. However, high doses should be approached with caution because of 
theoretical toxicity concerns like long-term wound healing, particularly in the setting of  coexisting lymphedema. 
Risk of secondary cancer, severe or worsening lymphedema, and long-term wound healing complications may be increased after radiation; 
however, toxicity can be mitigated by utilizing lower-dose radiotherapy regimens.  
Caution should be exercised with the use of RT to sites of pre-existing lymphedema. In the setting of advanced cutaneous disease, 
radiation should be reserved for circumstances when systemic therapy is not feasible with the goal of palliation or short-term disease 
management until systemic therapy may be delivered.
• General Treatment Information 
Dosing Prescription Regimen1,2,3
 ◊Various dosing schemas may be used. Lower total doses are preferred for smaller and more superficial lesions and palliative situations. 
Higher doses may be preferred for more extensive, deeply invasive lesions, or when a more durable local response is desired. More 
fractionated regimens may be preferred for sites with adjacent radiosensitive structures, such as the oral cavity. Examples:PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
Footnote
a BED is a measure of the radiosensitivity of the tissue, with BED10 denoting the estimated ef fective dose to rapidly growing tumor tissue and BED3 denoting the 
estimated dose to normal tissue (organs at risk).
References
1 Singh NB, Lakier RH, Donde B. Hypofractionated radiation therapy in the treatment of epidemic Kaposi sarcoma – a prospective randomized trial. Radiother Oncol 
2008;88:211-216.2 Hauerstock D, Gerstein W, Vuong T. Results of radiation therapy for treatment of classic Kaposi sarcoma. J Cutan Med Surg 2009;13:18-21.3 Kirova YM, Belembaogo E, Frikha H, et al. Radiotherapy in the management of epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma: a retrospective study of 643 cases. Radiother Oncol 
1998;46:19-22.4 Tsao MN, Sinclair E, Assaad D, et al. Radiation therapy for the treatment of skin Kaposi sarcoma. Ann Palliat Med 2016;5:298-302.5 Stelzer KJ, Griffin TW. A randomized prospective trial of radiation therapy for AIDS-associated Kaposi's sarcoma. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1993;27:1057-1061.Fractionated Dose Biologically Effective Dose [BED]10aBED3
6–8 Gy in 1 fraction49.6–14.4 Gy 18–29 Gy
20 Gy in 5 fractions1,3 28 Gy 47 Gy
24 Gy in 12 fractions128.8 Gy 40 Gy
30 Gy in 10–15 fractions2,336–39 Gy 50–60 Gy
40 Gy in 20 fractions548 Gy 67 GyPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPYa
KS-F  
1 OF 4• Subsequent systemic therapy options for relapsed/
refractory therapyf (in alphabetical order)
 ◊Bortezomib
 ◊Gemcitabine
 ◊Lenalidomide
 ◊Pomalidomide
 ◊Vinorelbine
Useful in certain circumstances (in alphabetical order)
 ◊Albumin-bound paclitaxel (if paclitaxel intolerant)
 ◊Etoposide
 ◊Imatinib
 ◊Nivolumab ± ipilimumabg
 ◊Pembrolizumabg
 ◊Sirolimusd (for transplant KS) 
 ◊Thalidomide (for patients with IRIS)Relapsed/
refractory 
systemic 
therapyb 
options
(advanced 
cutaneous, 
oral, visceral, 
or nodal 
disease)If tolerated and 
durable response 
(≥3 months) 
to first-line 
systemic therapy
If no response 
to first-line 
systemic therapyRepeat of first-
line systemic 
therapy 
or
Alternate first-
line systemic 
therapy
Alternate first-
line systemic 
therapyeProgressionProgressionFirst-line 
systemic 
therapy 
options• Preferred regimens
Liposomal doxorubicinc
For transplant KS, sirolimusd 
• Other recommended regimen
Paclitaxel
Systemic Therapy Dosing 
(KS-F 2 of 4)
a References for regimens on KS-F (4 of 4).b Consider repeating any prior systemic therapy that was tolerated and resulted in 
a durable response.c Due to potential risk of cardiotoxicity, perform echocardiogram prior to initial 
course of liposomal doxorubicin  and repeat periodically. Consider limiting lifetime 
dose per prescribing guidelines; however, other data suggest that the patients 
who need continued treatment may be safely treated beyond 1000 mg/m2. d For KS associated with immunosuppression from solid organ transplant 
switching to sirolimus for immunosuppression may be sufficient for KS control 
and treatment. Systemic therapy given concurrently with sirolimus would be 
appropriate in more aggressive or advanced disease.e If both first-line options have already been given, the patient should proceed to 
the subsequent systemic therapy options.f Patients can continue through all treatment options listed, and treatments can be 
repeated if tolerated and response was durable (≥3 months). In select cases, best 
supportive care may be an appropriate option.g Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) should not be used in patients with MCD 
or KICS due to the risk of flare of these conditions. If the patient has a history 
of KSHV-associated diseases, ICIs should be used with caution and with 
consideration of more frequent monitoring for signs and symptoms of KICS 
or MCD. See NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in People with HIV, Principles of 
Systemic Therapy and Drug-Drug Interactions. See Discussion .PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY DOSINGa,h 
KS-F  
2 OF 4FIRST-LINE SYSTEMIC THERAPY DOSING
Preferred regimens
• Liposomal doxorubicinc
20 mg/m2 IV every 2 to 3 weeks
• Sirolimus (for transplant KS) 
Loading dose 0.15 mg/kg PO followed by 0.04–0.06 mg/kg/day to maintain trough blood 
levels of 6–10 ng/mL or 2 mg PO daily (adjust to maintain trough levels of 6–10 ng/mL)
For PWH on ART, providers should consult with an infectious disease (ID) pharmacist prior 
to dosing sirolimusOther recommended regimen
• Paclitaxel
Premedication with dexamethasone may 
not be needed; if used, the dose should be 
minimized and tailored to patient needs.
Dose schedule options:
 ◊60 mg/m2 IV weekly  
 ◊100 mg/m2 IV every 2 weeks
 ◊100 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks
 ◊135 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks
SUBSEQUENT SYSTEMIC THERAPY OPTIONS FOR RELAPSED/REFRACTORY THERAPY DOSING 
• Bortezomib
1.6 mg/m2 IV/SC on days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day 
cycle
• Gemcitabine
1000 mg/m2 IV every 2 weeks
Or 1000 mg/m2 IV on days 1 and 8 every 21 days
• Lenalidomidei 
25 mg/day PO for 21 days of each 28-day cycle
• Pomalidomidei 
4 or 5 mg/day PO for 21 days of each 28-day cyclej
• Vinorelbine
30 mg/m2 IV every 2 weeksUseful in  certain circumstances (in alphabetical order)
• Albumin-bound paclitaxel (if paclitaxel 
intolerant)
100 mg IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of each 
28-day cycle
• Etoposide
50 mg/day PO for 7 days of each 14-day 
cycle. After 2 cycles, escalate dose to 
100 mg/day PO for 7 days of each 14-
day cycle in patients without PR or CR 
and no toxicity >Grade 2. Dose can be 
further escalated to 150 mg/day based 
on tolerance and response
• Imatinib
400 mg/day PO
• Nivolumab + ipilimumabg
Nivolumab 240 mg IV every 2 weeks and 
ipilimumab 1 mg/kg IV every 6 weeks
• Nivolumabk 
480 mg IV every 4 weeks• Pembrolizumabg
200 mg IV every 3 weeks for up to 6 
months
• Sirolimus (for transplant KS)
Loading dose 0.15 mg/kg PO 
followed by 0.04–0.06 mg/kg/day to 
maintain trough blood levels of 6–10 
ng/mL or 2 mg PO daily (adjust to 
maintain trough levels of 6–10 ng/
mL).
For PWH on ART, providers should 
consult with an ID pharmacist prior 
to dosing sirolimus
• Thalidomide (for patients with IRIS)i 
200 mg/day orally (starting dose, 
titrated to effect and tolerability) 
Footnotes on KS-F 3 of 4
References on KS-F 4 of 4PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
a References for regimens on KS-F (4 of 4).
c Due to potential risk of cardiotoxicity, perform echocardiogram prior to initial course of liposomal doxorubicin  and repeat periodically. Consider limiting lifetime dose per 
prescribing guidelines; however, other data suggest that the patients who need continued treatment may be safely treated beyond 1000 mg/m2. 
g Immune checkpoint inhibitors should not be used in patients with MCD or KICS due to the risk of flare of these conditions. If the patient has a history of KSHV-
associated diseases, ICIs should be used with caution and with consideration of more frequent monitoring for signs and symptoms of KICS or MCD. See NCCN 
Guidelines for Cancer in People with HIV, Principles of Systemic Therapy and Drug-Drug Interactions. See Discussion .
h For PWH, see NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in People with HIV , Principles of Systemic Therapy and Drug-Drug Interactions (HIV-B).
i Patients of childbearing potential treated with pomalidomide, lenalidomide, or thalidomide require ef fective contraception if participating in sexual activity that could 
result in pregnancy. Refer to the risk evaluation and mitigation (REMS) program for the specific therapy.
j The clinical trial for pomalidomide used a dose of 5 mg/day. However, pomalidomide is provided in a 4-mg dose and the NCCN Panel believes that this is a sufficient 
dose.
k Nivolumab and hyaluronidase-nvhy subcutaneous injection may be substituted for IV nivolumab. Nivolumab and hyaluronidase-nvhy has dif ferent dosing and 
administration instructions compared to IV nivolumab.SYSTEMIC THERAPY
FOOTNOTES
KS-F  
3 OF 4PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
KS-F  
4 OF 4Albumin-bound  paclitaxel
Fortino S, Santoro M, Iuliano E, et al. Treatment of Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS) with nab-
paclitaxel. Ann Oncol 2016;27:iv124.
Bortezomib
Reid E, Suazo A, Lensing SY, et al. Pilot trial AMC-063: Safety and efficacy of 
bortezomib in AIDS-associated Kaposi sarcoma. Clin Cancer Res 2020;26:558-565.
Etoposide
Hosseinipour MC, Kang M, Krown SE, et al. As-needed vs immediate etoposide 
chemotherapy in combination with antiretroviral therapy for mild-to-moderate AIDS-
associated Kaposi sarcoma in resource-limited settings: A5264/AMC-067 randomized 
clinical trial. Clin Infect Dis 2018;67:251-260. 
Gemcitabine
Strother RM, Gregory KM, Pastakia SD, et al. Retrospective analysis of the ef ficacy 
of gemcitabine for previously treated AIDS-associated Kaposi’s sarcoma in western 
Kenya. Oncology 2010;78:5-11.
Imatinib
Koon HB, Krown SE, Lee JY, et al. Phase II trial of imatinib in AIDS-associated 
Kaposi’s sarcoma: AIDS Malignancy Consortium Protocol 042. J Clin Oncol 
2014;32:402-408.
Lenalidomide
Pourcher V, Desnoyer A, Assoumou L, et al. Phase II trial of lenalidomide in HIV-
infected patients with previously treated Kaposi's sarcoma: Results of the ANRS 154 
Lenakap trial. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses 2017;33:1-10. 
Reid E, Shimabukuro K, Moore P,et al. AMC-070: Lenalidomide is safe and effective in 
HIV-associated Kaposi sarcoma. Clin Cancer Res 2022;28:2646-2656.
Liposomal doxorubicin
Northfelt DW, Dezube BJ, Thommes JA, et al. Pegylated-liposomal doxorubicin versus 
doxorubicin, bleomycin, and vincristine in the treatment of AIDS-related Kaposi’s 
sarcoma: results of a randomized phase III clinical trial. J Clin Oncol 1998;16:2445-
2451.
Jones RL, Berry GJ, Rubens RD, Miles DW. Clinical and pathological absence of 
cardiotoxicity after liposomal doxorubicin. Lancet Oncol 2004;5:575-577.
Stewart S, Jablonowski H, Goebel FD, et al. Randomized comparative trial of 
pegylated liposomal doxorubicin versus bleomycin and vincristine in the treatment of 
AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma. International Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Study 
Group. J Clin Oncol 1998;16:683-691.
Nivolumab ± ipilimumab
Delyon J, Bizot A, Battistella M, et al. PD-1 blockade with nivolumab in endemic Kaposi 
sarcoma. Ann Oncol 2018;29:1067-1069.
Zer A, Icht O, Avram D, et al. Phase II single-arm study of nivolumab and ipilimumab 
(Nivo/Ipi) in previously treated classical Kaposi sarcoma (cKS). Ann Oncol 
2022;33:720-727.Paclitaxel
Baskan EB, Tunali S, Balaban Adim S, et al. Treatment of advanced classic Kaposi’s 
sarcoma with weekly low-dose paclitaxel therapy. Int J Dermatol 2006;45:1441-1443.
Cianfrocca M, Lee S, Von Roenn J, et al. Randomized trial of paclitaxel versus 
pegylated liposomal doxorubicin for advanced human immunodeficiency virus-
associated Kaposi sarcoma: evidence of symptom palliation from chemotherapy. 
Cancer 2010;116:3969-3977.
Krown SE, Moser CB, MacPhail P, et al. Treatment of advanced AIDS-associated 
Kaposi sarcoma in resource-limited settings: a three-arm, open-label, randomised, 
non-inferiority trial. Lancet 2020;395:1195-1207.
Patel N, Salifu M, Sumrani N, et al. Successful treatment of post-renal transplant 
Kaposi's sarcoma with Paclitaxel. Am J Transplant 2002;2:877-879.
Welles L, Saville MW, Lietzau J, et al. Phase II trial with dose titration of paclitaxel for 
the therapy of human immunodeficiency virus-associated Kaposi's sarcoma. J Clin 
Oncol 1998;16:1112-1121.
Pembrolizumab
Delyon J, Biard L, Renaud M, et al. PD-1 blockade with pembrolizumab in classic or 
endemic Kaposi's sarcoma: a multicentre, single-arm, phase 2 study. Lancet Oncol 
2022;23:491-500.
Pomalidomide
Polizzotto MN, Uldrick TS, Wyvill KM, et al. Pomalidomide for symptomatic Kaposi’s 
sarcoma in people with and without HIV infection: a phase I/II study. J Clin Oncol 
2016;34:4125-4131.
Sirolimus
Krown SE, Roy D, Lee JY, et al. Rapamycin with antiretroviral therapy in AIDS-
associated Kaposi sarcoma: An AIDS Malignancy Consortium study. J Acquir Immune 
Defic Syndr 2012;59:447-454. 
Stallone G, Schena A, Infante B, et al. Sirolimus for Kaposi's sarcoma in renal-
transplant recipients. N Engl J Med 2005;352:1317-1323.
Thalidomide
Little RF, Wyvill KM, Pluda JM, et al. Activity of thalidomide in AIDS-related Kaposi’s 
sarcoma. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:2593-2602.
Vinorelbine
Nasti G, Errante D, Talamini R, et al. Vinorelbine is an effective and safe drug for AIDS-
related Kaposi’s sarcoma: results of a phase II study. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:1550-
1557.SYSTEMIC THERAPY
REFERENCESPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
ABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-1
ART antiretroviral therapy
BED biologically effective dose
CBC complete blood count
CR complete response
DDIs drug-drug interactions
EGD esophagogastroduodenoscopy
GI gastrointestinal
HHV-8 human herpesvirus 8
HIV human immunodeficiency virus
ICI immune checkpoint inhibitor
ID infectious disease
IHC immunohistochemistry 
IL interleukin
IMRT intensity-modulated radiation 
therapy
IRIS immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndromeKICS KSHV–associated inflammatory 
cytokine syndrome
KS Kaposi sarcoma
KSHV Kaposi sarcoma-associated 
herpesvirus
MCD multicentric Castleman disease
NHL non-Hodgkin lymphoma
NSAIDs nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs
OI opportunistic infection
PD progressive disease
PR partial response
PWH people with HIV
REMS risk evaluation and mitigation
SD stable disease
SPEP serum protein electrophoresisPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Kaposi Sarcoma
Version 2.2025, 1/14/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CAT-1NCCN Categories of Evidence and Consensus
Category 1 Based upon high-level evidence (≥1 randomized phase 3 trials or high-quality , robust meta-analyses), there is 
uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 2A Based upon lower-level evidence, there is uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 2B Based upon lower-level evidence, there is NCCN consensus (≥50%, but <85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 3 Based upon any level of evidence, there is major NCCN disagreement that the intervention is appropriate. 
All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
NCCN Categories of Preference
Preferred interventionInterventions that are based on superior efficacy, safety, and evidence; and, when appropriate, 
affordability.
Other recommended 
interventionOther interventions that may be somewhat less efficacious, more toxic, or based on less mature data; 
or significantly less affordable for similar outcomes.
Useful in certain 
circumstancesOther interventions that may be used for selected patient populations (defined with recommendation).
All recommendations are considered appropriate.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-1 Discussion  
Table of Contents  
Overview  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................  2 
Guidelines Update Methodology  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  2 
Literature Search Criteria ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  2 
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  2 
HIV-Associated Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  3 
Classic Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................  3 
Iatrogenic Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........................  4 
Endemic Kaposi Sarcoma ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................  4 
Management of Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  4 
Diagnosis and Workup of Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  4 
Staging of Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................  5 
Assessing Response of Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 5 
Initial Management of Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 6 
Optimizing Immune Function  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  6 
Limited Cutaneous Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 6 
Antiretroviral Therapy for People with HIV  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  7 
Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  8 
Topical Therapies  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 8 
Intralesional Chemotherapy  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  9 
Local Excision  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 9 
Radiation Therapy  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................  9 
Cryotherapy  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  10 
Systemic Therapy  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  10 
Surveillance of Patients with Kaposi Sarcoma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  11 
Systemic Therapy of Relapsed/Refractory Disease  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  11 
Summary ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  14 
References  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  16 This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Kaposi Sarcoma . Last updated : October  21, 2024  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-2 Overview  
Kaposi sarcoma is a multifocal malignancy of endothelial cells, which 
presents with characteristic purpuric, red or brown papules. Four types of 
Kaposi sarcoma have been described : HIV-associated , classic , iatrogenic 
or transplant -associated, and endemic .1-3 Kaposi sarcoma is universally 
associated with Kaposi sarcoma -associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) infection 
(also known as human herpesvirus -8, or HHV -8).2 Serologic confirmation 
of KSHV infection is present in 95% to 98% of patients with Kaposi 
sarcoma.2,3 KSHV infections are usually asymptomatic . Like  other 
herpesviruses, KSHV establish es latent infection in humans  that is  life-
long. Hence, persons with KSHV infection are at life -long risk of Kaposi 
sarcoma and other KSHV -associated diseases . Immunosuppression  of 
various forms  (ie, immunosenescence, HIV -associated  and iatrogenic)  is 
recognized  to be  an important factor in the pathogenesis of Kaposi 
sarcoma.   
The NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®) 
for Kaposi Sarcoma provide treatment recommendations for patients with 
HIV-associated , classic, iatrogenic, and endemic Kaposi sarcoma and are 
intended to assist health care providers with clinical decision -making . This 
Discussion section provides an overview of the literature supporting the 
recommendations included in the guidelines. The Panel also publishes 
separate NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in People with HIV (available at 
www.NCCN.org ), which give recommendations regardin g human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) management during cancer therapy, 
drug-drug interactions (DDIs) with antiretrovirals and cancer therapies, 
radiation therapy, and supportive care  for people with HIV ( PWH ). 
Recommendation s for the management of Kaposi sarcoma for patients in 
sub-Saharan Africa can be found in t he NCCN Harmonized Guidelines ™ 
for Sub -Saharan Africa for Kaposi Sarcoma (available at 
www.NCCN.org/harmonized ). Guidelines Update Methodology  
The complete details of the Development and Update of the NCCN 
Guidelines are available on the NCCN website at www.NCCN.org . 
Literature Search Criteria  
Prior to the update of the NCCN Guidelines® for Kaposi Sarcoma, an 
electronic search of the PubMed database was performed to obtain key 
literature in Kaposi Sarcoma  published since the previous Guidelines 
update, using the search term: Kaposi Sarcoma.  The PubMed database 
was chosen because it remains the most widely used resource for medical 
literature and indexes peer -reviewed biomedical literature.4 
The search  results were  narrowed by selecting studies in humans 
published in English. Results were confined to the following article types: 
Clinical Trial,  Phase II; Clinical Trial,  Phase III; Clinical Trial,  Phase IV; 
Practice Guideline; Randomized Controlled Trial; Meta -Analysis; 
Systematic Reviews; and Validation Studies.  
The data from key PubMed articles as well as articles from additional 
sources deemed as relevant to these guidelines as discussed by the 
Panel during the Guidelines update have been included in this version of 
the Discussion section. Recommendations for which high -level evidence is 
lacking are based on the Panel’s review of lower -level evidence and 
expert opinion.  
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage  
NCCN Guidelines strive to use language that advances the goals of 
equity, inclusion, and representation.5 NCCN Guidelines endeavor to use 
language that is person -first; not stigmatizing; anti -racist, anti -classist, 
anti-misogynist, anti -ageist, anti -ableist, and anti -weight -biased; and 
inclusive of individuals of all sexual orientations and gender identities. 
NCCN Guidelines incorporate non -gendered language, instead focusing PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-3 on organ -specific recommendations. This language is both more accurate 
and more inclusive and can help fully address the needs of individuals of 
all sexual orientations and gender identities. NCCN Guidelines will 
continue to use the terms men, women, female, and ma le when citing 
statistics, recommendations, or data from organizations or sources that do 
not use inclusive terms. Most studies do not report how sex and gender 
data are collected and use these terms interchangeably or inconsistently. 
If sources d o not differentiate gender from sex assigned at birth or organs 
present, the information is presumed to predominantly represent cisgender 
individuals. NCCN encourages researchers to collect more specific data in 
future studies and organizations to use more  inclusive and accurate 
language in their future analyses.  
HIV-Associated  Kaposi Sarcoma  
Historically, when  Kaposi sarcoma occur red in the setting of HIV 
seropositivity, it was considered an AIDS -defining illness and was referred 
to as AIDS -related or epidemic Kaposi sarcoma . The risk for Kaposi 
sarcoma in the setting of HIV was previously  reported to be increased as 
much as 3640 -fold over the general U.S. population,6-10 but this risk has 
declined in the  antiretroviral therapy  (ART) era.6,11-14 Still, estimates 
indicate that the risk of Kaposi sarcoma in PWH between 2009 and 2012 
was elevated approximately 498 -fold compared with the general U.S. 
population,11 and Kaposi sarcoma accounts for approximately 12% of 
cancers diagnosed in PWH, with an estimated 765 to 910 cases 
diagnosed per year in the United States.15,16 The 5 -year survival of 
patients with AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma has improved in the post -ART 
era, from 12.1% in 1980 to 1995 to as high as 88% in the post -ART era.17-
19  
When immunosuppression is advanced, HIV-associated  Kaposi sarcoma 
is more common, more aggressive, and more likely to involve viscera , 
mucosa, and lymph  nodes  and cause lymphedema  than when immunosuppression is minimal . In fact, CD4+ T -cell counts and HIV viral 
load correlate with the risk of Kaposi sarcoma  development  in PWH, and 
effective ART lowers th at risk.20 Evidence also suggests that ART 
improves prognosis of Kaposi sarcoma in PWH . However, HIV-associated  
Kaposi sarcoma can also occur in PWH with normal CD4+ T -cell counts 
and undetectable HIV viral load.   Similar to classic Kaposi sarcoma , these 
cases commonly  occur  with adva nced age.  Even with well -controlled HIV , 
studies have demonstrated more rapid immunosenescence  than HIV -
negative cohorts, which may permit  Kaposi sarcoma to become clinically 
apparent in KSHV -seropositive individuals.  Typically presentin g with more 
limited disease  than in PWH with advanced immunosuppression , these 
cases have prompted  a shift toward favoring  the term “HIV -associated 
Kaposi sarcoma”  over “AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma” in those with 
otherwise preserved immune function.   
HIV management during treatment of Kaposi sarcoma in PWH is critical. 
Co-management by oncology and HIV specialist s is recommended for the 
duration of therapy.  Oncology and HIV specialist s, along with both an 
oncology pharmacist and HIV pharmacist if available, should review 
proposed cancer therapy, supportive care medications, and ART for 
possible DDIs and overlapping toxicities prior to initiation of therapy for 
PWH.  The NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in People with HIV (available at 
www.NCCN.org ) provide  additional recommendations on HIV screening, 
linkage to HIV care, prevention of opportunistic infections, DDIs  between 
antiretrovirals and cancer therapies, radiation therapy, and supportive care 
for PWH.  
Classic Kaposi Sarcoma  
Classic Kaposi sarcoma generally involves indolent cutaneous lesions, 
often of the lower extremities, which  may wax and wane or slowly 
progress over years to decades. It is most common in people of 
Mediterranean, Eastern European, Middle Eastern, and/or Jewish origins , PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-4 with a mean age of 74 years  at diagnosis .1,3 It is reported to be 7 to 15 
times more  common  in males than in females .1,3 Synchronous primary  
malignancies may be  fairly  common in patients with classic Kaposi 
sarcoma, and are more likely to be the cause of death in these patients.3 
Iatrogenic Kaposi Sarcoma  
When Kaposi sarcoma occurs in the context of immunosuppressive 
therapy (for organ transplant or other reasons), it is called iatrogenic or 
transplant -associated Kaposi sarcoma.1 Lesions often appear 2 to 8 
months after initiation of immunosuppression, and occur 2 to 3 times more 
often in males .1 Although this form of Kaposi sarcoma can be aggressive 
and involve lymph nodes, mucosa, and/or visceral organs, it frequently 
responds to cessation of immunosuppression.   When this is not feasible, 
reduction of immunosuppression or change to use of mTOR inhibitors as 
the immunosuppres sive therapy  can improve control  of Kaposi sarcoma .21  
Endemic Kaposi Sarcoma  
Endemic Kaposi sarcoma occurs in children and younger adults (<40 
years of age) of equatorial Africa  and may also occur in immigrants from 
the region . It is usually more aggressive than classic Kaposi sarcoma, 
sometimes with visceral, bone, and/or lymph node involvement , although it 
often begins as skin lesions that remain indolent for several years .1 As 
with classic Kaposi sarcoma, endemic disease is 10 to 17 times more 
common in males  than in females .1 
Management of Kaposi Sarcoma  
Diagnosis and Workup of Kaposi Sarcoma  
Multiple clinical and histologic presentations of Kaposi sarcoma have been 
described. Mucosal and cutaneous lesions may be characterized clinically 
as papules, plaques, nodules (sometime pedunculated), and bullae. Large 
plaques may form from coalescence of  smaller plaques or nodules and may ulcerate or develop bullae. Hyperpigmented macules (lacking change 
in palpable skin thickness) rarely represent active disease; rather, they are 
very common after lesion regression due to residual hemosiderin -related 
pigmentation . Histologic subtypes include anaplastic, telangiectatic, 
lymphedematous, hyperkeratotic, keloidal, micronodular, pyogenic 
granuloma -like, ecchymotic, and intravascular variants of Kaposi sarcoma.  
Lymphedema is a common complication of Kaposi sarcoma and may also 
be a predisposing factor to the development of Kaposi sarcoma. 
Lymphedema can be caused by not only nodal involvement but 
involvement of lymphatic vessels. Hyperkeratotic variants with verr ucous 
and hyperkeratotic changes are notably associated with chronic and 
severe Kaposi sarcoma -associated lymphedema and may require deeper 
biopsy to confirm presence of Kaposi sarcoma.  
As described in the guidelines above, Kaposi sarcoma is diagnosed by 
pathology and immunophenotyping. Workup should include a history and 
physical exam that includes any history of additional immunosuppression 
such as transplant or glucocorticoids  (including topical, intranasal , inhaled, 
intraarticular , as well as systemic) , complete blood count (CBC) with 
differential, comprehensive metabolic panel, and HIV screening and/or 
diagnostic testing. In addition, complete skin, oral, and lymph node exams, 
with documentation of edema and photography of oral, conjunctival, and 
cutaneous lesions for documentation of extent of disease are 
recommended. It is important to note that certain opportunistic infections  
can result in cutaneous lesions that can mimic Kaposi sarcoma lesions 
(eg, b acillary angiomatosis , blastomycosis, cryptococco sis).22-25 Therefore, 
in addition to biopsy of suspected lesions, involvement of an HIV specialist 
to evaluate for coexisting opportunistic infections is appropriate in PWH 
and those with advanced immunosuppression.   
For PWH, care coordination between the HIV specialist and the oncology 
team is recommended . Recommendations for the management of cancer PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-5 in PWH are presented in the NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in People with 
HIV (available at www.NCCN.org) . All PWH  should have recent T -cell 
subsets including quantitative CD4 + T-cell counts and  HIV viral load to 
assess immune function and HIV control .  
Depending on symptoms and findings that may be concerning for visceral 
or bone involvement, additional workup may be necessary. This may 
include fecal occult blood testing (FOBT), chest x -ray, 
chest/abdomen/pelvis CTs with contrast, MRI with and without contrast, 
upper endoscopy, or colonoscopy.  
Unexplained fevers , particularly when associated with cytopenias  
occurring in the context of Kaposi sarcoma , should prompt workup of 
multicentric Castleman disease ( MCD ) and KSHV -associated 
inflammatory cytokine syndrome ( KICS ) with C -reactive protein, KSHV  
serum viral load, serum protein electrophoresis ( SPEP ), IL-6, and IL -10. 
KICS and MCD share clinical features and are only distinguished from 
each other by biopsy of lymphadenopathy or other structures 
demonstrating pathologic characteristics of MCD.26 In the event of  
suspected  coexisting KSHV -associated lymphoma, MCD, or  KICS , 
additional workup  including imaging may be necessary, such as  
fluorodeoxyglucose ( FDG )-PET/CT scans  and laboratory workup noted 
above .  
It is important to note that  interpretation of  imaging in PWH  who have 
cancer is complicated by the increased incidence of non -malignant lesions 
that may be mistaken for cancer spread or recurrence. Opportunistic 
infections in the lung include  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  (Mtb), 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) , invasive fungal infections , and Pneumocystis 
jirovecii  pneumonia (PCP) .27 Furthermore, non -infectious, non -malignant 
pulmonary manifestations of HIV can be difficult to interpret on imaging 
studies, including interstitial pneumonia  and granulomatous disease .27,28 
Furthermore, brain lesions seen in PWH  may result from opportunistic infections, such as viral encephalitis , aspergillosis, toxoplasmosis , 
cryptococcosis , bacterial meningitis, tuberculosis , progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy , and mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) .29,30 
PWH are at increased risk of lymphomas including primary central 
nervous system lymphoma . Benign non -infectious brain lesions can also 
occur in PWH  (eg, vascular complications, hydrocephalus ).29,30 Similarly, 
immune response to HIV and opportunistic infections commonly cause 
lymphadenopathy in PWH , which can be seen on CT and may be avid on 
F-18 FDG PET/CT.31,32 Non-malignant causes of lymphadenopathy are 
more common in patients with higher HIV viral loads and lower CD4+ 
T-cell counts .33 Therefore,  involvement of an HIV specialist to assist with 
determining  the need for a workup of suspected concurrent opportunistic 
infection or HIV-associated  complications may be appropriate . 
Staging of Kaposi Sarcoma  
As delineated in the guidelines above, Kaposi sarcoma is staged using a 
TIS system in which aspects of the tumor (T), immune system (I), and 
systemic disease (S) are assessed with a 0 for good risk and 1 for poor 
risk.34 Data ha ve shown that the I stage has less prognostic value than  the 
T or S stages  for PWH  on ART.18 Kaposi sarcoma  staged as T1S1 
appear s to have the worst prognosis. In a study of 211 patients with 
AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma, those staged as T1S1 had a 3 -year survival 
rate of 53%, whereas for those staged as T0S0 , T1S0, or T0S1, the 3 -year 
survival rates were 88%, 80%, and 81%, respectively ( P = .0001).18 
Assessing Response of Kaposi Sarcoma  
Response of Kaposi sarcoma to therapy has been formally defined by the 
AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) Oncology Committee as follows34: 
• Complete response (CR) is defined as the absence of any 
detectable residual disease, including tumor -associated (local) 
edema, persisting for at least 4 weeks. Patients known to have had 
visceral disease  should have  restaging with appropriate PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-6 endosco pic or radiographic procedures relevant to sites involved at 
baseline . 
• Partial response (PR) is defined as no  new mucocutaneous 
lesions, visceral sites of involvement, or the appearance or 
worsening of tumo r-associated edema or effusions ; AND  
o A ≥50% decrease in the number of all previously existing 
lesions lasting for at least 4 weeks; OR  
o Complete flattening of at least 50% of all previously raised 
lesions ( ie, 50% of all previously nodular or plaque -like 
lesion become macules); OR  
o A 50% decrease in the sum of the products of the largest 
perpendicular diameters of at least five measurable lesions.  
o Note that when there is residual tumor -associated edema 
or effusion,  but disease  otherwise meet s criteria for CR, 
response should be classified as partial.  
• Stable disease (SD) is defined as any response that does not meet 
the criteria for progressive disease (PD) or PR.  
• PD is defined as an increase of ≥25% in the size of pre -existing 
lesions and/or the appearance of new lesions or sites of disease 
and/or a change in the character of the skin or oral lesions from 
macular to plaque -like or nodular  of ≥25%. If new or increasing 
tumor -associated edema or effusion develop, disease is 
considered progressive.  
Many Kaposi sarcoma lesions that are responsive to therapy will flatten 
and change color but remain  pigmented ( ranging from very dark brown to  
tan) as non -palpable macular skin lesions. Biopsy of these will often 
confirm lack of residual tumor cells with residual siderophages and /or free 
hemosiderin pigment  in the tissue. This is attributed to long -term iron 
deposition resulting from red blood cell extravasation into the tissue 
(dermal layer characteristically in cutaneous lesions). Care should be 
taken to distinguish this “tattoo” effect from active disease , as additional therapy is not indicated for the former. Over time, many lesions will 
gradually fade, depending on many factors, including chronicity and size of 
the lesion as well as degree to which red blood cell extravasation 
occurred.   
Initial M anagement  of Kaposi Sarcoma  
Optimizing Immune Function  
For all types and severities of Kaposi sarcoma, optimizing immune 
function is a critical component of management , and in some cases may 
be the only intervention needed for initial control . Iatrogenic 
immunosuppression —including over -the-counter topical or intranasal 
glucocorticoids —is often identified  on a careful  medication history  in 
persons with and without HIV  prior to initial presentation or flare of Kaposi 
sarcoma.  Patients and their providers should be educated on the 
importance of c essation and avoidance of  immunosuppressive therapies  
whenever possible,  including topical , local, and systemic therapies .  
Otherwise, immunosuppressive therap y should be minimized as much as 
possible to reduce  risk of Kaposi sarcoma progression and flares.  PWH 
additionally benefit from maximizing HIV suppression and immune 
recons titution with appropriate ART.  
Limited Cutaneous Kaposi Sarcoma  
PWH with limited cutaneous disease that is asymptomatic and 
cosmetically acceptable  to the patient  may be treated with ART alone (see 
below). Persons without HIV can be observed until the disease becomes 
symptomatic and/or cosmetically bothersome  or progressive . 
PWH  with symptomatic and/or cosmetically bothersome  limited cutaneous 
disease should be treated with ART and with the most minimally invasive 
and least toxic therapy possible. When necessary, a  limited number of 
cycles  of systemic therapy (eg, 3 –6; options discussed below ) may be 
sufficient for those initiating or re -initiating ART . Other options include PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-7 radiation, and f or small lesions (ie, ≤1 cm), topical treatment, intralesional 
chemotherapy, cryotherapy, and local excision (all discussed below). 
Intralesional chemotherapy and radiation to plantar and palmar surfaces 
may be useful in selected cases but  should be approached with caution  
because of toxicity or functional adverse events . Increased risk of 
long-term wound healing , particularly in the setting of coexisting 
lymphedema , is a concern.  
The same treatment options, without ART, are recommended for patients 
without HIV who have limited cutaneous disease that is symptomatic 
and/or cosmetically bothersome . 
If disease progresses on therapy  in PWH , consider biopsy of lesions since 
they may be areas of post -inflammatory pigment and/or mimickers of 
Kaposi sarcoma . If it is Kaposi sarcoma , the individual should be 
evaluate d for inadequate HIV control  or other immunosuppressant use , 
which could be  contributing factor s to inadequate Kaposi sarcoma control. 
Change in ART in conjunction with an HIV specialist may be warranted for 
some cases  (see the NCCN Guidelines for Cancer in People with HIV, 
available at www.NCCN.org ).  
For PWH with adequate HIV control and those without  HIV, treatment 
option s should be determined by  the extent of disease. If disease is stable 
or a response is seen on initial therapy, the patient should be observed  
(while ART is continued  in PWH) . If the disease  progresses or relapses 
after an initial response to therapy, repeat use of the previously effective 
therapy may be considered, particularly if response was durable  and the 
therapy  was well tolerated . 
Preferred initial treatment for patients with advanced cutaneous, oral, 
visceral, or nodal Kaposi sarcoma is systemic therapy , in conjunction with  
ART for PWH . For those not eligible for  systemic therapy, radiation can be 
used, in conjunction with ART for PWH. The data supporting these treatment options are described below. Well-designed clinical trials may 
also be considered for frontline therapy , with the consideration that 
established systemic therapies  are often most appropriate for frontline 
therapy of  symptomatic  visceral disease .  
It is important to note that individual Kaposi sarcoma lesions may be 
distinct clones  that arise because of the common risk factors of 
immunosuppression and latent  KSHV  infection  as opposed to metastases . 
Furthermore, persistence of KSHV  infection results in ongoing risk of 
recurrence/disease progression . Currently, eradication of KSHV  is not 
possible. Therefore, treatment of existing disease may not prevent 
occurrence of future lesions. Given this and the fact that many 
presentations of Kaposi sarcoma are not life -threatening, the goals of 
therapy are focused on disease control . Wide  excisions with the goal of 
achieving negative margins  are not indicated , as they do  not contribute to 
control of Kaposi sarcoma . Local excisions should instead  be used for 
limited symptomatic lesions where systemic therapy is not appropriate .  
When such excisions are likely to  be complex, other local therapies 
including cryotherapy or radiation can be favorable  alternative s. Systemic 
therapy  with risk of long-term toxicities should be reserved for more 
serious presentations .   
Antiretroviral Therapy  for People with HIV  
Reconstitution of immune function,  maintenance of viral suppression,  and 
avoidance of additional immunosuppression are critical to prevent 
additional Kaposi sarcoma lesions and maintain response to therapy  in 
PWH . In fact, in the setting of limited cutaneous disease, r emissions or SD 
may occur with optimization of immune function and HIV viral suppression 
alone.35-41 Therefore, co -management with an HIV specialist to optimize 
suppression of HIV and reconstitution of immune function with ART  is 
important for patients with AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma (see the NCCN 
Guidelines for People with HIV, available at www.NCCN.org ).  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-8 Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome  
Initiation of ART may result in immune reconstitution inflammatory 
syndrome (IRIS) within 3 to 6 months in a reported 6% to 39% of patients 
with AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma.42-46 Kaposi sarcoma -associated IRIS  
(KS-IRIS)  is characterized by  first presentation or paradoxical worsening 
of pre -existing Kaposi sarcoma infection following ART initiation.47 Clinical 
manifestations  of IRIS may be challenging to distinguish from natural 
history of PD and may include the development of new lesions or 
enlargement of existing lesions , worsening lymphadenopathy, increased 
tenderness, and lymph edema. Individuals with pulmonary involvement, 
concurrent or recent use of glucocorticoids, and/or advanced 
immunosuppr ession may be at increased risk.42,43,45 The risk of IRIS is 
higher in patients with baseline low CD4 T -cell counts and high HIV viral 
loads.48 In contrast with management of IRIS for some opportunistic 
infections, glucocorticoids are generally contraindicated in Kaposi 
sarcoma, as well as in Kaposi sarcoma -associated IRIS, because of the 
potential for life -threatening Kaposi sarcoma exacerbation resulting from 
stimulatory effects of glucocorticoids on Kaposi sarcoma spindle cells and 
association of glucocorticoid use with increased mortality.43,49,50 KS-IRIS is 
an indication for urgent initiation of systemic Kaposi sarcoma therapy and 
should involve coordination with an HIV specialist. Signs of past IRIS may 
be an indication for earlier initiation of systemic Kaposi sarcoma therapy. 
ART should not be delayed or discontinued unless life-threatening IRIS 
develops.   
PWH with advanced K aposi sarcoma  not on ART at the time of 
presentation should start systemic therapy as soon as possible after the 
initiation of ART to minimize the risk of severe KS -IRIS. A randomized 
open -label clinical trial compared two treatment strategies  in patients with 
mild-to-moderate AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma  in sub -Saharan Africa : 
ART with concurrent low -dose oral etoposide versus ART with etoposide 
later, as needed.51 Results demonstrated that early initiation of chemotherapy and ART together decreased early  progression of  Kaposi 
sarcoma   and IRIS. Early progression of Kaposi sarcoma  and IRIS 
incidences with immediate etoposide versus ART alone were 16% v ersus 
39%, and 7% v ersus 21%, respectively. Another  clinical trial compared  
immediate v ersus  as-needed oral etoposide in PWH with mild -to-moderate 
Kaposi sarcoma  initiating ART.52 Immediate oral etoposide delayed K aposi 
sarcoma  progression ( P = .021), decreased suspected KS -IRIS events ( P 
= .003), and decreased time to initial K aposi sarcoma  response ( P = .003) . 
However, no long -term clinical benefit was observed compared to the as-
needed approach.  
Whereas there are no prospective trials using thalidomide for Kaposi 
sarcoma -associated  IRIS, successful control of steroid -refractory IRIS with 
thalidomide has been reported, and  the immunomodulatory drugs ( IMiDs), 
including  thalidomide , are an active class of therapy  in Kaposi sarcoma.53-
56 
Topical Therapies  
Topical therapies are an option for patients with limited cutaneous disease 
that is symptomatic and/or cosmetically bothersome . Alitretinoin  gel, a 
retinoid, was studied in a phase III vehicle -controlled, double -blind, 
multi -centered study , in which 134 patients with AIDS -related Kaposi 
sarcoma received either 0.1% alitretinoin gel or vehicle gel twice daily for 
12 weeks .57 The cutaneous tumor response rate s were 37% in the 
alitretinoin group compared with 7% in the control group. Another very 
similar randomized, multicenter, double -blind, vehicle -controlled study also 
compared tumor response rates in patients with AIDS -related Kaposi 
sarcoma between an alitretinoin group and a control group.58 Response 
rates in the  268 patients were 35% for those who received 0.1%  
alitretinoin gel compared with 18 % for those who received the  vehicle gel.  
In both of these  studies, alitretinoin gel was well tolerated, with mostly mild 
to moderate adverse events  that were limited to the  application  site and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-9 that were relieved when treatment was stopped.  Data on the use of 
alitretinoin  in classic Kaposi sarcoma is limited  to two case reports, in 
which one patient showed significant improvement and the other did 
not.59,60   
Imiquimod is a topical immune response modulator with antiviral and 
antitumor activity.61 It is used in a variety of skin conditions including 
malignancies and warts.61,62 Case reports have shown that i miquimod  
cream can be safe and effective in some patients with classic or 
transplant -associated Kaposi sarcoma.63-70 In a single -center,  open -label , 
phase I /II trial, 17 patients  without HIV who had  Kaposi sarcoma received 
imiquimod 5% cream 3 times per week for 24 weeks .71 The response rate 
was 47%. Over half of the patients reported local itching and erythema , 
but treatment was generally well tolerated. I miquimod  is not well studied 
as a treatment for patients with cutaneous AIDS -related  Kaposi 
sarcoma.72,73 The Panel includes imiquimod as an option for patients with 
limited cutaneous AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma based on extrapolation 
from the data presented above in other settings, expert opinion, and 
non-published anecdotal data.  
Intralesional Chemotherapy  
Intralesional vinblastine is another option for patients with limited 
mucocutaneous disease that is symptomatic and/or cosmetically 
bothersome . Intralesional injection of vinblastine has been studied in case 
reports, case series, and one small randomized trial of patients with oral 
AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma.74-80 In a large series of 144 oral Kaposi 
sarcoma lesions in 50 PWH , CR was seen in 74% of lesions and PR in 
26%.77 The recurrence rate was 26%, with a mean disease -free period of 
12.9 weeks. Consistent with the safety profile seen in other studies, pain 
was reported by 72% of participants, ulceration occurred in 22%, and 
temporary numbness was seen in 12%. Pain is generally mild to moderate 
and relieved with pain med ication, and ulceration is generally self -limiting.  Studies on the use of intralesional vinblastine injection for cutaneous 
lesions are more limited.81,82 In a trial of 11 patients  with AIDS -related 
Kaposi sarcoma, 88% of cutaneous lesions showed a com plete or partial 
clinical response .81 Treatment resulted in inflammation and blistering of 
the lesion prior to healing, and the final results were not cosmetically 
optimal because of post -inflammation hyperpigmentation. Most patients 
reported aching pain 6 to 48 hours post -treatment that was relieved with 
pain medication.  
Intralesional vinblastine has also been used in cutaneous lesions in 
patients with classic Kaposi sarcoma.83 
Local Excision  
Local excision is an option for patients with limited cutaneous disease that 
is symptomatic and/or cosmetically bothersome . Data regarding outcomes 
of the excision of cutaneous Kaposi sarcoma lesions are limited and 
appear to be restricted to individuals  without HIV .84-88  Wide  excisions with 
goal of negative margins is not indicated as this does not contribute to 
prevention  of additional Kaposi sarcoma  lesion development as discussed 
above.  
Radiation Therapy  
Kaposi sarcoma is radioresponsive, with CR rates of treated lesions 
reported in the range of 6 0% to 9 3%.69,89 -93 Radiation therapy for Kaposi 
sarcoma is used in patients with limited cutaneous disease that is 
symptomat ic and/or cosmetically bothersome . For patients with advanced 
disease, s ystemic therapy is preferred over radiation therapy in first-line 
and for relapsed/refractory  disease as long as systemic therapy is feasible 
based on performance status and comorbidities.  Radiation in this setting 
should be reserved for circumstances when systemic therapy is not 
feasible or when palliative therapy is needed to miti gate pain or other 
symptoms.94 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-10 When radiation is used, hypofractionated regimens (eg, 20 Gy in 5 
fractions) appear to be equally effective as the standard regimen of 24 Gy 
in 12 fractions.95,96 Dose fractionation should be based on  the site of 
treatment with consideration for surrounding normal tissue tolerance.  
Lower doses are preferred for smaller and more superficial lesions. Higher 
doses may be preferred for more extensive, deeply invasive lesions. More 
fractionated regimens may be preferred for sites with adjacent 
radiosensitive structures, such as the oral cavity.   
The side effects of radiation for Kaposi sarcoma are site-dependent, but 
typically manageable given the low doses needed to achieve a 
response .89-92 Still, the risk of secondary cancer, severe or worsening 
lymphedema, and long -term wound healing complications may be 
increased after radiation.  Early recognition and treatment of dermatitis, 
oral mucositis , and lymph edema are especially important.89,91,97 The risk of 
lymphedema is already elevated in patients with K aposi sarcoma and may 
increase after radiation.98 Therefore, caution should be exercised with the 
use of radiation to sites of pre -existing lymphedema. Early referral to and 
co-management with a lymphedema specialist is recommended. In the 
setting of advanced cutaneous disease, radiation therapy should be 
reserved for cases where systemic therapy is not feasible, with the goal of 
palliation or short -term disease management until systemic therapy may 
be delivered. Radiation therapy may also be used for disease refractory to 
multiple types of systemic thera py. 
Cryotherapy  
Cryotherapy is also an option for patients with limited cutaneous disease 
that is symptomatic and/or cosmetically bothersome . In a small study of 30 
patients, 125 lesions were treated with cryotherapy.99 Nineteen  (63%) 
patients  experienced a CR without recurrence. Blistering was frequent, 
local pain was limited , and the treatment  was well tolerated overall . Other studies also suggest that cryotherapy can be effective in patients with 
classic Kaposi sarcoma.70 
Systemic Therapy  
The preferred first -line systemic therapy is liposomal doxorubicin. In a 
randomized phase III trial, 258 patients with advanced AIDS -related 
Kaposi sarcoma were randomized to receive pegylated -liposomal 
doxorubicin  or doxorubicin , bleomycin , and vincristine (ABV ).100 The 
overall response rate was 46% (95% CI, 37% –54%)  in the liposomal 
doxorubicin arm and 25% (95% CI, 17% –32%)  in the ABV arm . The 
median time to treatment failure was approximately 4 months in both 
groups. Most patients in both arms experienced ≥1 grade 3 –4 adverse 
event, with leukopenia , nausea/vomiting, anemia, and peripheral 
neuropathy as the most common adverse events in the liposomal 
doxorubicin group. P egylated -liposomal doxorubicin  was also compared 
with bleomycin  and vincristine (BV)  in another ra ndomized trial of patients 
with AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma (n = 241).101 As in the other trial, 
response rates were superior in the liposomal doxorubicin group 
compared with the BV group (59% vs. 23%; P < .001) . 
Pegylated -liposomal doxorubicin  resulted in an increased risk of 
neutropenia but  was less likely to result in early treatment cessation.  
Liposomal doxorubicin  has also been shown to have activity in classic and 
transplant -associated  Kaposi sarcoma.69,102 
Liposomal doxorubicin is associated with risk of cardiotoxicity .103-105 
Therefore, an echocardiogram should be performed prior to initial course 
of liposomal doxorubicin and should be repeated as  clinically indicated .106 
Consider limiting lifetime dose per prescribing guidelines; however, some  
data suggest that the patients who need continue d treatment may be 
safely treated beyond 1000  mg/m2.107 
An alternative option for first -line systemic therapy for limited cutaneous 
and advanced disease is paclitaxel. Early studies showed that it has PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-11 significant activity in the advanced disease setting, with n eutropenia as the 
most frequent dose -limiting toxicity .69,108 -110 
One trial randomized 73 patients with advanced AIDS -related Kaposi 
sarcoma to paclitaxel or pegylated -liposomal doxorubicin .111 The two arms 
were statistically equivalent with regard to response rates  (56% for 
paclitaxel vs. 46% for pegylated -liposomal doxorubicin; P = 0.49) , median 
progression -free survival  (17.5 vs. 12.2 months; P = 0.66) , and 2 -year 
survival  (79% vs. 78%; P = 0.75) . A trend toward increases  in grade 3 to 
grade 5 toxicity was seen in the  paclitaxel arm (84% vs . 66%; P = .077) , 
with 1 lethal, grade 5 pulmonary embolism in a patient treated with 
paclitaxel . A systematic review of r andomized trials and observational  
studies in patients with advanced  AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma found no 
evident  difference s between liposomal doxorubicin, liposomal 
daunorubicin , and paclitaxel , although the number of studies identified was 
low.112 Data on the use of paclitaxel in non –AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma 
are more  limited.113,114 
Surveillance of Patients with Kaposi Sarcoma  
Patients treated for Kaposi sarcoma who do not require active treatment 
and who are without signs of progression should be followed periodically 
based on degree of response to therapy and, if applicable, degree of HIV 
viremia and immune reconstitution.  Surveillance should include history 
and physical (including complete skin and oral exams and documentation 
of edema and history of additional immunosuppression such as 
transplant/glucocorticoids), CBC with  differential, and comprehensive 
metabolic panel . For PWH, surveillance should also include T-cell subsets  
(CD4+ T -cell count ) and HIV viral load , and ART adherence should be 
assessed.  
If a change in disease is noted, lesions should be photographed for 
documentation. If there are signs and symptoms concerning  for visceral involvement, progression/refractory disease meriting  new therapy, or a 
notable change in disease burden, various tests and imaging studies are 
indicated based on clinical circumstances. Testing for opportunistic 
infections should be conducted if signs of infection or inflammation are 
present. For patients w ith advanced cutaneous, oral, visceral, or nodal 
involvement, FOBT and chest x -ray are recommended. In patients with GI 
symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain , and 
melena/blood in stool,  esophagogast roduodenoscopy, colonoscopy , and 
CT imaging should be performed. When pulmonary symptoms such as 
dyspnea and cough are present, bronchoscopy and chest CT should be 
performed.  
It is important to note that KSHV  is not eradicated with treatment of Kaposi 
sarcoma, and the risk of future Kaposi sarcoma persists even after 
complete remission. Avoidance of iatrogenic immunosuppression as well 
as optimization and monitoring of immune function  and HIV control  are 
important to minimize this risk because  disease risk generally decreases 
with immune reconstitution. However, Kaposi sarcoma can persist, 
relapse, or present even in the setting of “normal ” CD-4 counts. Less 
frequent (every 6 –12 months) oncologic monitoring may be appropriate for 
select patients with Kaposi sarcoma that is  limited in extent,  stable for ≥2 
years , and without ongoing immunosuppressive therapy and , for PWH, 
undetectable HIV viral loads, normal T -cell subsets, and regular follow -up 
with an HIV specialist.  
Systemic Therapy  of Relapsed/Refractory Disease  
At first progression, the same systemic therapy options as in first line 
(liposomal doxorubicin and paclitaxel, discussed above) may be 
considered as follows:  
• If first -line therapy was tolerated and a durable response (>3 
months) was seen, then a repeat of the therapy used in first line 
should be considered.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-12 • If there was no response to first -line systemic therapy, then an 
alternative first -line therapy option should be given.  
Following subsequent progressions, liposomal doxorubicin or paclitaxel, 
whichever has not yet been administered, is recommended.115,116 
Following treatment with liposomal doxorubicin and paclitaxel , the Panel 
recommends p omalidomide as the preferred regimen. P omalidomide was 
studied in a phase I/II trial of seven people without HIV  and 15 PWH  who 
had Kaposi sarcoma.55 PWH  were required to have viremia controlled and 
either progressive or stable Kaposi sarcoma on ART. Most of the 
participants (17 of 22; 77%) had previous therapy for Kaposi sarcoma, 
exclusive of ART.117 The response rate was 60% in the PWH  group  (95% 
CI, 32% –84%) . Grade 3 –4 adverse events that might have occurred due 
to pomalidomide were neutropenia, infection, and edema.  Pomalidomide 
has received accelerated  U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA) 
approv al for the treatment of adult patients with AIDS -related K aposi 
sarcoma  after failure of highly active ART  and for patients  without HIV who 
have  Kaposi sarcoma . 
Other treatment options for subsequent lines of therapy for 
relapsed/refractory disease include bortezomib, gemcitabine, 
lenalidomide, and vinorelbine. Etoposide,  imatinib,  ipilimumab + nivolumab  
(for classic K aposi sarcoma ), albumin -bound paclitaxel  (if paclitaxel  
intolerant ), pembrolizumab  (for endemic and classic K aposi sarcoma ), 
sirolimus  (for transplant K aposi sarcoma ), and thalidomide (for patients 
with IRIS) may also be useful under certain circumstances. Patients can 
continue through all treatment options listed, and treatments can be 
repeated if they were tolerated  and the response was durable (≥3 
months). In select cases, best supportive care may be an appropriate 
option.   
Immune checkpoint inhibitors should not be used in patients with MCD or 
KICS because they can exacerbate these conditions. In a phase I study assessing the safety of pembrolizumab in PWH and advanced cancer, a 
heavily pretreated patient with K aposi sarcoma  and prior history of KICS  
and elevated peripheral blood mononuclear cell -associated KSHV  
developed marked KSHV viremia and inflammation, leading to death.118  
Bortezomib was studied in the dose -escalation , pilot AMC -063 trial, which 
included 17 patients with relapsed/refractory AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma 
on ART.119 The maximum tolerated dose was not reached. The PR rate 
was 60% in 15 evaluable patients  and 83% in the 1.6 mg/m2 cohort . The 
rest of the participants experienced SD. The most common adverse 
events were  diarrhea, fatigue , and nausea.  
Evidence for the use of ge mcitabine  in patients with refractory 
AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma comes only from a retrospective analysis of 
23 patients who had been treated with first-line ABV .120 CR was seen in 
three patients (13%), PR in eight (35%), and SD in 11 (48%). Only one 
patient had PD. Grade 3 –4 adverse events include leukopenia, pain, 
fatigue, and neutropenia. Gemcitabine has also been studied as first -line 
systemic therapy in a phase IIA trial in West Kenya, with a CR rate of 33% 
and a PR rate of 53%.121 Gemcitabine also has activity in classic Kaposi 
sarcoma.69 
The phase II AIDS Malignancy Consortium trial of lenalidomide evaluated 
response rates of relapsed/refractory Kaposi sarcoma  in 42 persons with 
HIV.56 PRs occurred in 60% of participants  and treatment . The most 
common adverse events were neutropenia, fatigue, leukopenia, and 
diarrhea.  The phase II ANRS 154 Lenakap trial evaluated the rate of PR or 
CR at week 24  after treatment with  lenalidomide in 12 patients with 
relapsed/refractory AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma.54 The primary endpoint 
was the rate of PR or CR by Physical Global Assessment  (PGA)  criteria. 
Although none of the 10 patients who were evaluable at 24 weeks met 
PGA at 24 or 48 weeks, four met ACTG criteria  for PR at 48 weeks.   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-13 Evidence for the activity of vinorelbine in AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma 
comes from a phase II trial of 35 assessable patients with PD.122 Complete 
clinical response s were seen in  9%, and PRs were seen in 34%. The 
median duration of response was about 6 months.  Neutropenia was the 
most frequent dose -limiting toxicity , but other side effects were mild and 
reversible,  and the treatment was generally well tolerated.  Data on the use 
of vinorelbine  in classic and post -transplant Kaposi sarcoma are 
limited.123,124 
Etoposide has been studied in multiple phase II trials and in the 
A5264/AMC -067 trial of patients with AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma.52,125 -
127 In one of the phase II trials, 36 patients with previously treated 
AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma received  a course of oral etoposide , and the 
overall response rate  was 36% , with SD occurring in 33% of the 
participants.127 The median duration of response was about 6 months. 
Grade 3 –4 neutropenia occurred in 28%, and opportunistic infections 
occurred in 22%. The other phase II trials also showed oral etoposide to 
have clinical activity and be well tolerated. In the A5264/AMC -067 trial, 
190 patients with mild-to-moderate AIDS -related  Kaposi sarcoma in Africa 
and South America were randomized to ART alone with etoposide given 
for progression or ART plus immediate etoposide.52 No difference in 
response between the groups was seen at 48 months. If oral etoposide is 
used, the Panel recommends the dose escalation used in this trial, as 
indicated in the guidelines.  Etoposide also has activity in classic Kaposi 
sarcoma.69,128 
Imatinib has activity in AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma.129,130 The strongest 
evidence comes from a multicenter phase II trial in which 30 patients were 
treated with imatinib.131 Eighteen patients (60%) had received p rior 
therapy. Partial  response  occurred in 33% and  20% had stable disease . 
The median duration of response was approximately 8 month s, with 
disease progression in seven patients (23%).  Grade 3 –4 adverse events attributed to imatinib included a llergic reaction/hypersensitivity , nausea, 
dehydration, and cellulitis, but only  five patients (17%) discontinued 
therapy because of  adverse events . 
Evidence for the use of ipilimumab + nivolumab for classical K aposi 
sarcoma  is limited to a phase II single -arm study in 18 patients with 
progressive disease after one or more lines of systemic therapy.132 The 
primary endpoint of overall response rate was 87%. The secondary 
endpoint of 6 -month progression -free survival rate was 76.5%. Grade 3 –4 
adverse events were experienced by four patients (one patient with grade 
3 colitis, two patients with grade 3 –4 lipase elevation, and one with grade 
3 pneumonitis). Two patients discontinued treatment due to adverse 
events possibly related to treatment.  
Evidence for the use of albumin -bound  paclitaxel in Kaposi sarcoma 
appears to be limited to one abstract of a phase II trial of 6 patients with 
classic Kaposi sarcoma.133 Partial (n = 2) or complete responses (n = 4) 
were seen in all patients.  Grade 3 adverse events were neutropenia in half 
of the patients and thrombocytopenia in 1 of 6 patients.   
A multicent er, phase II, single -arm trial treated 17 patients (8 with classic 
Kaposi sarcoma  and 9 with endemic K aposi sarcoma ) with 
pembrolizumab.134 The primary endpoint was the best overall response 
rate within a 6-month timeframe, and three or more responses among the 
17 patients were needed for the primary endpoint to be met. Two patients 
(22%) had a CR, 10 patients had a PR (59%), and 5 patients (29%) had 
SD, with a best overall response rate of 71% (95% CI , 44–90), meeting 
the primary outcome. Adverse events occurred in 13 patients, including 
two grade 3 adverse events (1 acute cardiac decompensation and 1 
granulomatous reaction).  
For Kaposi sarcoma associated with immunosuppression from solid organ 
transplant, switching to sirolimus for immunosuppression may be sufficient PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-14 for Kaposi sarcoma control and treatment. In a study of 15 patients who 
underwent kidney transplants and developed Kaposi sarcoma,  
cyclosporine therapy was stopped  and sirolimus  was initiated .21 At 3 
months after the start of sirolimus therapy, all cutaneous lesions had 
disappeared in all patients , all with confirmed histologic  remission at 6 
months. No acute episodes of rejection or changes in kidney -graft function  
were seen .  
Thalidomide has been studied in AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma in two 
phase II trials.135,136 One of these trials included 17 assessable patients 
with PD.135 PRs were seen in 47%, and SD was seen in 12%. T ime to 
progression was a median 7.3 months . The most frequent ly reported side 
effects were d rowsiness in 45% of participants and depression in  35%. 
Although  no prospective trials have used  thalidomide for Kaposi 
sarcoma -associated  IRIS, successful control of steroid -refractory IRIS with 
thalidomide has been reported, and thalidomide is an active agent in 
Kaposi sarcoma.53 The Panel thus believes that thalidomide may be a 
useful option for patients with Kaposi sarcoma and 
corticosteroid -refractory IRIS.   
Summary  
Management of Kaposi sarcoma depends on location and extent of 
disease. PWH with limited cutaneous disease that is asymptomatic and 
cosmetically acceptable to the patient may be treated with ART alone. 
Remissions or SD may occur with optimization of immune function  and 
HIV viral suppression  alone . 
Those with symptomatic and/or cosmetically bothersome  limited 
cutaneous disease should be treated with therapy  that is  minimally 
invasive with the least toxicity possible , and  with ART , if HIV -positive . 
Options include a  limited number of cycles  of systemic therapy, topical treatment, intralesional chemotherapy, radiation, cryotherapy, and local 
excision.  
Preferred initial treatment for patients with significant lymphedema  and 
advanced cutaneous, oral, visceral, or nodal AIDS -related Kaposi sarcoma 
is ART with systemic therapy  or systemic therapy alone for those without  
HIV. Alternatively,  a well -designed clinical trial of an agent previously 
demonstrated to have activity  is an appropriate option . For those not 
eligible for  systemic therapy, radiation can be used (with ART  for PWH) . 
As lymphedema often complicates Kaposi sarcoma, early involvement of a 
lymph edema specialist is recommended.  
Surveillance of patients treated for Kaposi sarcoma is important, as 
disease can recur after an initial CR and in the setting of normal values of 
T-cell subsets. Persistence of KSHV  and emergence of distinct tumor 
clones can lead to disease progression and relapse.  Furthermore, 
because individual Kaposi sarcoma lesions are often distinct clones as 
opposed to metastases, treatment of existing disease does not prevent 
occurrence of new lesions.  
For relapsed/refractory disease, a typical systemic therapy sequence 
would be first -line liposomal doxorubicin, followed by second -line 
paclitaxel, followed by pomalidomide in the third line of treatment. 
Additional lines of other therapies can be given, and any systemic therapy 
that was tolerated with a  durable response  can be repeated.  
Immunosuppression in general and g lucocorticoids in any formulation 
should be avoided in patients with active or prior Kaposi sarcoma, or other 
KSHV -associated conditions, given the potential to cause significant flares 
or relapses of Kaposi sarcoma. The use of glucocorticoids should be 
limited to serious or life-threatening conditions for which these therapies  
are otherwise indicated (ie, anaphylaxis). Proceed with caution if using 
glucocorticoids and consult an HIV or K aposi sarcoma  specialist. Other PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-15 therapies associated with flares of Kaposi sarcoma include those 
suppressing B - and T -cell numbers and/or function such as rituximab and 
cyclosporine, respectively.137,138 Of note, patients with AIDS -related 
lymphomas who have concurrent Kaposi sarcoma are often able to 
receive multiagent chemotherapy regimens including glucocorticoids and 
rituximab without significant flare of Kaposi sarcoma if the regimen also 
includes agents active against Kaposi sarcoma such as anthracyclines.  
Careful monitoring of  Kaposi sarcoma should be performed during and 
following  conclusion of lymphoma therapy ; additional Kaposi sarcoma -
directed therapy may be require d after  completion of  lymphoma  regimens 
associated with prolonged immunosuppression (ie , rituximab, nucleoside 
analogues ). 
Overall, the survival of patients with Kaposi sarcoma has greatly improved, 
and long -term survival can be the goal for many patients. The goals of 
therapy for patients with advanced disease are namely reducing or 
reversing symptoms  and mitigating end -organ damage . Complete 
remissions in this setting are rare , but effective therapy can result in  
long-term disease control . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-16 References  
1. Angeletti PC, Zhang L, Wood C. The viral etiology of AIDS -associated 
malignancies. Adv Pharmacol 2008;56:509 -557. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18086422 . 
2. Antman K, Chang Y. Kaposi's sarcoma. N Engl J Med 2000;342:1027 -
1038. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10749966 . 
3. Hiatt KM, Nelson AM, Lichy JH, Fanburg -Smith JC. Classic Kaposi 
Sarcoma in the United States over the last two decades: a 
clinicopathologic and molecular study of 438 non -HIV-related Kaposi 
Sarcoma patients with comparison to HIV -related Kaposi Sarcoma.  Mod 
Pathol 2008;21:572 -582. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18376387 . 
4. PubMed Overview. U.S. National Library of Medicine; 2023. Available 
at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/ . Accessed June 23, 2023.  
5. Freedman -Cass DA, Fischer T, Alpert AB, et al. The value and process 
of inclusion: Using sensitive, respectful, and inclusive language and 
images in NCCN content. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2023;21:434 -441. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37156485 . 
6. Engels EA, Pfeiffer RM, Goedert JJ, et al. Trends in cancer risk among 
people with AIDS in the United States 1980 -2002. AIDS 2006;20:1645 -
1654. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16868446 . 
7. Engels EA, Biggar RJ, Hall HI, et al. Cancer risk in people infected with 
human immunodeficiency virus in the United States. Int J Cancer 
2008;123:187 -194. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18435450 . 
8. Grulich AE, van Leeuwen MT, Falster MO, Vajdic CM. Incidence of 
cancers in people with HIV/AIDS compared with immunosuppressed 
transplant recipients: a meta -analysis. Lancet 2007;370:59 -67. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17617273 . 
9. Lee JY, Dhakal I, Casper C, et al. Risk of cancer among commercially 
insured HIV -infected adults on antiretroviral therapy. J Cancer Epidemiol 2016;2016:2138259. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27882054 . 
10. Patel P, Hanson DL, Sullivan PS, et al. Incidence of types of cancer 
among HIV -infected persons compared with the general population in the 
United States, 1992 -2003. Ann Intern Med 2008;148:728 -736. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18490686 . 
11. Hernandez -Ramirez RU, Shiels MS, Dubrow R, Engels EA. Cancer 
risk in HIV -infected people in the USA from 1996 to 2012: a population -
based, registry -linkage study. Lancet HIV 2017;4:e495 -e504. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28803888 . 
12. Robbins HA, Shiels MS, Pfeiffer RM, Engels EA. Epidemiologic 
contributions to recent cancer trends among HIV -infected people in the 
United States. AIDS 2014;28:881 -890. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24300545 . 
13. Shiels MS, Pfeiffer RM, Hall HI, et al. Proportions of Kaposi sarcoma, 
selected non -Hodgkin lymphomas, and cervical cancer in the United 
States occurring in persons with AIDS, 1980 -2007. JAMA 2011;305:1450 -
1459. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21486978 . 
14. Luo Q, Satcher Johnson A, Hall HI, et al. Kaposi sarcoma rates among 
persons living with human immunodeficiency virus in the United States: 
2008 -2016. Clin Infect Dis 2020;73:e2226 -e2233. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33140823 . 
15. Robbins HA, Pfeiffer RM, Shiels MS, et al. Excess cancers among 
HIV-infected people in the United States. J Natl Cancer Inst 2015;107. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25663691 . 
16. Yarchoan R, Uldrick TS. HIV -associated cancers and related diseases. 
N Engl J Med 2018;378:1029 -1041. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29539283 . 
17. Armstrong AW, Lam KH, Chase EP. Epidemiology of classic and 
AIDS -related Kaposi's sarcoma in the USA: incidence, survival, and 
geographical distribution from 1975 to 2005. Epidemiol Infect PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-17 2013;141:200 -206. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22404880 . 
18. Nasti G, Talamini R, Antinori A, et al. AIDS -related Kaposi's Sarcoma: 
evaluation of potential new prognostic factors and assessment of the AIDS 
Clinical Trial Group Staging System in the Haart Era --the Italian 
Cooperative Group on AIDS and Tumors and the Italian Cohort of Patients 
Naive From Antiretrovirals. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:2876 -2882. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12885804 . 
19. Royse KE, El Chaer F, Amirian ES, et al. Disparities in Kaposi 
sarcoma incidence and survival in the United States: 2000 -2013. PLoS 
One 2017;12:e0182750. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28829790 . 
20. Dubrow R, Qin L, Lin H, et al. Association of CD4+ T -cell count, HIV -1 
RNA viral load, and antiretroviral therapy with Kaposi sarcoma risk among 
HIV-infected persons in the United States and Canada. J Acquir Immune 
Defic Syndr 2017;75:382 -390. Availabl e at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28394855 . 
21. Stallone G, Schena A, Infante B, et al. Sirolimus for Kaposi's sarcoma 
in renal -transplant recipients. N Engl J Med 2005;352:1317 -1323. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15800227 . 
22. Amerson E, Woodruff CM, Forrestel A, et al. Accuracy of clinical 
suspicion and pathologic diagnosis of Kaposi sarcoma in east Africa. J 
Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2016;71:295 -301. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26452066 . 
23. Forrestel AK, Naujokas A, Martin JN, et al. Bacillary angiomatosis 
masquerading as Kaposi's sarcoma in East Africa. J Int Assoc Provid 
AIDS Care 2015;14:21 -25. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24718378 . 
24. Ramdial PK, Sing Y, Ramburan A, et al. Bartonella quintana -induced 
vulval bacillary angiomatosis. Int J Gynecol Pathol 2012;31:390 -394. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22653356 . 25. Jones C, Orengo I, Rosen T, Ellner K. Cutaneous cryptococcosis 
simulating Kaposi's sarcoma in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. 
Cutis 1990;45:163 -167. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2311432 . 
26. Polizzotto MN, Uldrick TS, Wyvill KM, et al. Clinical features and 
outcomes of patients with symptomatic Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus 
(KSHV) -associated inflammation: Prospective characterization of KSHV 
inflammatory cytokine syndrome (KICS). Clin Infect Dis 2016;62:730 -738. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26658701 . 
27. Allen CM, Al -Jahdali HH, Irion KL, et al. Imaging lung manifestations of 
HIV/AIDS. Ann Thorac Med 2010;5:201 -216. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20981180 . 
28. Gingo MR, Morris A. Pathogenesis of HIV and the lung. Curr HIV/AIDS 
Rep 2013;10:42 -50. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23079728 . 
29. Gottumukkala RV, Romero JM, Riascos RF, et al. Imaging of the brain 
in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. Top Magn Reson 
Imaging 2014;23:275 -291. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25296273 . 
30. Langford TD, Letendre SL, Larrea GJ, Masliah E. Changing patterns in 
the neuropathogenesis of HIV during the HAART era. Brain Pathol 
2003;13:195 -210. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12744473 . 
31. Brust D, Polis M, Davey R, et al. Fluorodeoxyglucose imaging in 
healthy subjects with HIV infection: impact of disease stage and therapy 
on pattern of nodal activation. AIDS 2006;20:985 -993. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16603850 . 
32. Scharko AM, Perlman SB, Pyzalski RW, et al. Whole -body positron 
emission tomography in patients with HIV -1 infection. Lancet 
2003;362:959 -961. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14511930 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-18 33. Goshen E, Davidson T, Avigdor A, et al. PET/CT in the evaluation of 
lymphoma in patients with HIV -1 with suppressed viral loads. Clin Nucl 
Med 2008;33:610 -614. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18716509 . 
34. Krown SE, Metroka C, Wernz JC. Kaposi's sarcoma in the acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome: a proposal for uniform evaluation, response, 
and staging criteria. AIDS Clinical Trials Group Oncology Committee. J 
Clin Oncol 1989;7:1201 -1207. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2671281 . 
35. Beatrous SV, Grisoli SB, Riahi RR, Cohen PR. Cutaneous HIV -
associated Kaposi sarcoma: a potential setting for management by clinical 
observation. Dermatol Online J 2017;23:13030. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28633734 . 
36. Asiimwe F, Moore D, Were W, et al. Clinical outcomes of HIV -infected 
patients with Kaposi's sarcoma receiving nonnucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor -based antiretroviral therapy in Uganda. HIV Med 
2012;13:166 -171. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22112164 . 
37. Bower M, Weir J, Francis N, et al. The effect of HAART in 254 
consecutive patients with AIDS -related Kaposi's sarcoma. AIDS 
2009;23:1701 -1706. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19550283 . 
38. Cattelan AM, Calabro ML, Gasperini P, et al. Acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome -related Kaposi's sarcoma regression after 
highly active antiretroviral therapy: biologic correlates of clinical outcome. 
J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr 2001:44 -49. Available at:  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11158206 . 
39. Dupont C, Vasseur E, Beauchet A, et al. Long -term efficacy on 
Kaposi's sarcoma of highly active antiretroviral therapy in a cohort of HIV -
positive patients. CISIH 92. Centre d'information et de soins de 
l'immunodeficience humaine. AIDS 2000;14:987 -993. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10853980 . 40. Nguyen HQ, Magaret AS, Kitahata MM, et al. Persistent Kaposi 
sarcoma in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy: characterizing the 
predictors of clinical response. AIDS 2008;22:937 -945. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18453853 . 
41. Mosam A, Shaik F, Uldrick TS, et al. A randomized controlled trial of 
highly active antiretroviral therapy versus highly active antiretroviral 
therapy and chemotherapy in therapy -naive patients with HIV -associated 
Kaposi sarcoma in South Africa. J Acqu ir Immune Defic Syndr 
2012;60:150 -157. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22395672 . 
42. Bower M, Nelson M, Young AM, et al. Immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome associated with Kaposi's sarcoma. J Clin Oncol 
2005;23:5224 -5228. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16051964 . 
43. Fernandez -Sanchez M, Iglesias MC, Ablanedo -Terrazas Y, et al. 
Steroids are a risk factor for Kaposi's sarcoma -immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome and mortality in HIV infection. AIDS 2016;30:909 -
914. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26636923 . 
44. Letang E, Almeida JM, Miro JM, et al. Predictors of immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome -associated with kaposi sarcoma in 
mozambique: a prospective study. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 
2010;53:589 -597. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19801945 . 
45. Volkow P, Cesarman -Maus G, Garciadiego -Fossas P, et al. Clinical 
characteristics, predictors of immune reconstitution inflammatory 
syndrome and long -term prognosis in patients with Kaposi sarcoma. AIDS 
Res Ther 2017;14:30. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28558783 . 
46. Sereti I, Sheikh V, Shaffer D, et al. Prospective international study of 
incidence and predictors of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome 
and death in people living with human immunodeficiency virus and severe 
lymphopenia. Clin Infect Dis 2020;7 1:652 -660. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31504347 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-19 47. Letang E, Lewis JJ, Bower M, et al. Immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome associated with Kaposi sarcoma: higher incidence 
and mortality in Africa than in the UK. AIDS 2013;27:1603 -1613. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23462220 . 
48. Guidelines for the Use of Antiretroviral Agents in Adults and 
Adolescents with HIV. Department of Health and Human Services; 
Available at: https://clinicalinfo.hiv.gov/en/guidelines/adult -and-adolescent -
arv. Accessed June 23, 2023.  
49. Guo WX, Antakly T. AIDS -related Kaposi's sarcoma: evidence for 
direct stimulatory effect of glucocorticoid on cell proliferation. Am J Pathol 
1995;146:727 -734. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7887453 . 
50. Volkow PF, Cornejo P, Zinser JW, et al. Life -threatening exacerbation 
of Kaposi's sarcoma after prednisone treatment for immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome. AIDS 2008;22:663 -665. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18317012 . 
51. Nyirenda M, Ngongondo M, Kang M, et al. Early progression and 
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome during treatment of mild -to-
moderate Kaposi Sarcoma in Sub -Saharan Africa and South America: 
Incidence, long -term outcomes, and effects of early c hemotherapy. J 
Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2020;84:422 -429. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32265361 . 
52. Hosseinipour MC, Kang M, Krown SE, et al. As -needed vs immediate 
etoposide chemotherapy in combination with antiretroviral therapy for mild -
to-moderate AIDS -associated Kaposi sarcoma in resource -limited settings: 
A5264/AMC -067 randomized clinical trial . Clin Infect Dis 2018;67:251 -260. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29365083 . 
53. Brunel AS, Reynes J, Tuaillon E, et al. Thalidomide for steroid -
dependent immune reconstitution inflammatory syndromes during AIDS. 
AIDS 2012;26:2110 -2112. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22874513 . 54. Pourcher V, Desnoyer A, Assoumou L, et al. Phase II trial of 
lenalidomide in HIV -infected patients with previously treated Kaposi's 
sarcoma: Results of the ANRS 154 Lenakap trial. AIDS Res Hum 
Retroviruses 2017;33:1 -10. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27405442 . 
55. Polizzotto MN, Uldrick TS, Wyvill KM, et al. Pomalidomide for 
symptomatic Kaposi's sarcoma in people with and without HIV infection: a 
phase I/II study. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:4125 -4131. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27863194 . 
56. Reid EG, Shimabukuro K, Moore P, et al. AMC -070: Lenalidomide is 
safe and effective in HIV -associated Kaposi sarcoma. Clin Cancer Res 
2022;28:2646 -2656. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35247913 . 
57. Bodsworth NJ, Bloch M, Bower M, et al. Phase III vehicle -controlled, 
multi -centered study of topical alitretinoin gel 0.1% in cutaneous AIDS -
related Kaposi's sarcoma. Am J Clin Dermatol 2001;2:77 -87. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11705307 . 
58. Walmsley S, Northfelt DW, Melosky B, et al. Treatment of AIDS -
related cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma with topical alitretinoin (9 -cis-retinoic 
acid) gel. Panretin Gel North American Study Group. J Acquir Immune 
Defic Syndr 1999;22:235 -246. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10770343 . 
59. Morganroth GS. Topical 0.1% alitretinoin gel for classic Kaposi 
sarcoma. Arch Dermatol 2002;138:542 -543. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11939830 . 
60. Rongioletti F, Zaccaria E, Viglizzo G. Failure of topical 0.1% alitretinoin 
gel for classic Kaposi sarcoma: first European experience. Br J Dermatol 
2006;155:856 -857. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16965450 . 
61. Bubna AK. Imiquimod - Its role in the treatment of cutaneous 
malignancies. Indian J Pharmacol 2015;47:354 -359. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26288465 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-20 62. Ganjian S, Ourian AJ, Shamtoub G, et al. Off -label indications for 
imiquimod. Dermatol Online J 2009;15:4. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19624982 . 
63. Babel N, Eibl N, Ulrich C, et al. Development of Kaposi's sarcoma 
under sirolimus -based immunosuppression and successful treatment with 
imiquimod. Transpl Infect Dis 2008;10:59 -62. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17428275 . 
64. Benomar S, Boutayeb S, Benzekri L, et al. Kaposi's sarcoma 
responding to topical imiquimod 5% cream: a case report. Cases J 
2009;2:7092. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20181188 . 
65. Bernardini B, Faggion D, Calabro L, et al. Imiquimod for the treatment 
of classical Kaposi's sarcoma. Acta Derm Venereol 2010;90:417 -418. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20574613 . 
66. Prinz Vavricka BM, Hofbauer GF, Dummer R, et al. Topical treatment 
of cutaneous Kaposi sarcoma with imiquimod 5% in renal -transplant 
recipients: a clinicopathological observation. Clin Exp Dermatol 
2012;37:620 -625. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22300351 . 
67. Gunduz K, Gunay U, Inanir I, et al. Efficacy of 5% imiquimod cream in 
a patient with classic Kaposi sarcoma. J Dermatol Case Rep 2012;6:52 -
53. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22826720 . 
68. Fairley JL, Denham I, Yoganathan S, Read TR. Topical imiquimod 5% 
as a treatment for localized genital Kaposi's sarcoma in an HIV -negative 
man: a case report. Int J STD AIDS 2012;23:907 -908. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23258836 . 
69. Regnier -Rosencher E, Guillot B, Dupin N. Treatments for classic 
Kaposi sarcoma: a systematic review of the literature. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2013;68:313 -331. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22695100 . 70. Odyakmaz Demirsoy E, Bayramgurler D, Caglayan C, et al. Imiquimod 
5% cream versus cryotherapy in classic Kaposi sarcoma. J Cutan Med 
Surg 2019;23:488 -495. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31072133 . 
71. Celestin Schartz NE, Chevret S, Paz C, et al. Imiquimod 5% cream for 
treatment of HIV -negative Kaposi's sarcoma skin lesions: A phase I to II, 
open -label trial in 17 patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 2008;58:585 -591. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18068265 . 
72. Rosen T. Limited extent AIDS -related cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma 
responsive to imiquimod 5% cream. Int J Dermatol 2006;45:854 -856. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16863526 . 
73. Lebari D, Gohil J, Patnaik L, Wasef W. Isolated penile Kaposi's 
sarcoma in a HIV -positive patient stable on treatment for three years. Int J 
STD AIDS 2014;25:607 -610. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24492851 . 
74. Epstein JB, Lozada -Nur F, McLeod WA, Spinelli J. Oral Kaposi's 
sarcoma in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Review of management 
and report of the efficacy of intralesional vinblastine. Cancer 
1989;64:2424 -2430. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2819653 . 
75. Epstein JB. Treatment of oral Kaposi sarcoma with intralesional 
vinblastine. Cancer 1993;71:1722 -1725. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8448735 . 
76. Ramirez -Amador V, Esquivel -Pedraza L, Lozada -Nur F, et al. 
Intralesional vinblastine vs. 3% sodium tetradecyl sulfate for the treatment 
of oral Kaposi's sarcoma. A double blind, randomized clinical trial. Oral 
Oncol 2002;38:460 -467. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12110340 . 
77. Flaitz CM, Nichols CM, Hicks MJ. Role of intralesional vinblastine 
administration in treatment of intraoral Kaposi's sarcoma in AIDS. Eur J 
Cancer B Oral Oncol 1995;31B:280 -285. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7492927 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-21 78. Friedman M, Venkatesan TK, Caldarelli DD. Intralesional vinblastine 
for treating AIDS -associated Kaposi's sarcoma of the oropharynx and 
larynx. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol 1996;105:272 -274. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8604887 . 
79. McCormick SU. Intralesional vinblastine injections for the treatment of 
oral Kaposi's sarcoma: report of 10 patients with 2 -year follow -up. J Oral 
Maxillofac Surg 1996;54:583 -587; discussion 588 -589. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8632242 . 
80. Shimomura S, Kikuchi Y, Oka S, Ishitoya J. Local treatment of AIDS -
associated bulky Kaposi's sarcoma in the head and neck region. Auris 
Nasus Larynx 2000;27:335 -338. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10996492 . 
81. Boudreaux AA, Smith LL, Cosby CD, et al. Intralesional vinblastine for 
cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma associated with acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome. A clinical trial to evaluate efficacy and discomfort associated 
with infection. J Am Acad Dermatol 199 3;28:61 -65. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8381146 . 
82. Smith KJ, Skelton HG, Turiansky G, Wagner KF. Hyaluronidase 
enhances the therapeutic effect of vinblastine in intralesional treatment of 
Kaposi's sarcoma. Military Medical Consortium for the Advancement of 
Retroviral Research (MMCARR). J Am Acad Dermat ol 1997;36:239 -242. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9039176 . 
83. Vassallo C, Carugno A, Derlino F, et al. Intralesional vinblastine 
injections for treatment of classic Kaposi sarcoma in diabetic patients. 
Cutis 2015;95:E28 -34. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26057517 . 
84. Sen F, Tambas M, Ciftci R, et al. Factors affecting progression -free 
survival in non -HIV-related Kaposi sarcoma. J Dermatolog Treat 
2016;27:275 -277. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26368051 . 85. Schmidt BM, Holmes CM. Classic solitary Kaposi sarcoma of the foot 
in an immunocompetent patient: a case report. Wounds 2016;28:E35 -E40. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27701130 . 
86. Cecchi R, Troiano M, Ghilardi M, Bartoli L. Kaposi sarcoma of the 
penis in an HIV -negative patient. J Cutan Med Surg 2011;15:118 -120. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21477561 . 
87. Ozbek MR, Kutlu N. A rare case of Kaposi's sarcoma; hand 
localization. Handchir Mikrochir Plast Chir 1990;22:107 -109. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2338301 . 
88. Weintraub CM, Skudowitz RB. Excision of 1,674 classic Kaposi's 
sarcomas. S Afr J Surg 2002;40:80. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12162235 . 
89. Becker G, Bottke D. Radiotherapy in the management of Kaposi's 
sarcoma. Onkologie 2006;29:329 -333. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16874018 . 
90. Caccialanza M, Marca S, Piccinno R, Eulisse G. Radiotherapy of 
classic and human immunodeficiency virus -related Kaposi's sarcoma: 
results in 1482 lesions. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2008;22:297 -302. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18269597 . 
91. Cooper JS, Steinfeld AD, Lerch I. Intentions and outcomes in the 
radiotherapeutic management of epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma. Int J Radiat 
Oncol Biol Phys 1991;20:419 -422. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1995526 . 
92. Donato V, Guarnaccia R, Dognini J, et al. Radiation therapy in the 
treatment of HIV -related Kaposi's sarcoma. Anticancer Res 2013;33:2153 -
2157. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23645769 . 
93. Kirova YM, Belembaogo E, Frikha H, et al. Radiotherapy in the 
management of epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma: a retrospective study of 643 
cases. Radiother Oncol 1998;46:19 -22. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9488122 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-22 94. Nobler MP, Leddy ME, Huh SH. The impact of palliative irradiation on 
the management of patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. J 
Clin Oncol 1987;5:107 -112. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2433407 . 
95. Singh NB, Lakier RH, Donde B. Hypofractionated radiation therapy in 
the treatment of epidemic Kaposi sarcoma --a prospective randomized trial. 
Radiother Oncol 2008;88:211 -216. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18439694 . 
96. Tsao MN, Sinclair E, Assaad D, et al. Radiation therapy for the 
treatment of skin Kaposi sarcoma. Ann Palliat Med 2016;5:298 -302. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27701876 . 
97. Wang J, Boerma M, Fu Q, Hauer -Jensen M. Radiation responses in 
skin and connective tissues: effect on wound healing and surgical 
outcome. Hernia 2006;10:502 -506. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17047884 . 
98. Spalek M. Chronic radiation -induced dermatitis: challenges and 
solutions. Clin Cosmet Investig Dermatol 2016;9:473 -482. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28003769 . 
99. Kutlubay Z, Kucuktas M, Yardimci G, et al. Evaluation of effectiveness 
of cryotherapy on the treatment of cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma. Dermatol 
Surg 2013;39:1502 -1506. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23879208 . 
100. Northfelt DW, Dezube BJ, Thommes JA, et al. Pegylated -liposomal 
doxorubicin versus doxorubicin, bleomycin, and vincristine in the treatment 
of AIDS -related Kaposi's sarcoma: results of a randomized phase III 
clinical trial. J Clin Oncol 1998;16:2445 -2451. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9667262 . 
101. Stewart S, Jablonowski H, Goebel FD, et al. Randomized 
comparative trial of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin versus bleomycin and 
vincristine in the treatment of AIDS -related Kaposi's sarcoma. International 
Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Study Group. J Clin Oncol 1998;16:683 -
691. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9469358 . 102. D'Amico F, Fuxman C, Nachman F, et al. Visceral Kaposi's sarcoma 
remission after intestinal transplant. First case report and systematic 
literature review. Transplantation 2010;90:547 -554. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20625354 . 
103. Armenian SH, Lacchetti C, Barac A, et al. Prevention and monitoring 
of cardiac dysfunction in survivors of adult cancers: American Society of 
Clinical Oncology clinical practice guideline. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:893 -
911. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27918725 . 
104. Smith LA, Cornelius VR, Plummer CJ, et al. Cardiotoxicity of 
anthracycline agents for the treatment of cancer: systematic review and 
meta -analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMC Cancer 2010;10:337. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587042 . 
105. Carver JR, Shapiro CL, Ng A, et al. American Society of Clinical 
Oncology clinical evidence review on the ongoing care of adult cancer 
survivors: cardiac and pulmonary late effects. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3991 -
4008. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17577017 . 
106. Doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome injection, for intravenous use. 
Horsham, PA: 2019. Available at: 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2019/050718s055l
bl.pdf . Accessed May 21, 2021.  
107. Jones RL, Berry GJ, Rubens RD, Miles DW. Clinical and pathological 
absence of cardiotoxicity after liposomal doxorubicin. Lancet Oncol 
2004;5:575 -577. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15337488 . 
108. Welles L, Saville MW, Lietzau J, et al. Phase II trial with dose titration 
of paclitaxel for the therapy of human immunodeficiency virus -associated 
Kaposi's sarcoma. J Clin Oncol 1998;16:1112 -1121. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9508198 . 
109. Saville MW, Lietzau J, Pluda JM, et al. Treatment of HIV -associated 
Kaposi's sarcoma with paclitaxel. Lancet 1995;346:26 -28. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7603142 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-23 110. Krown SE, Moser CB, MacPhail P, et al. Treatment of advanced 
AIDS -associated Kaposi sarcoma in resource -limited settings: a three -
arm, open -label, randomised, non -inferiority trial. Lancet 2020;395:1195 -
1207. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32145827 . 
111. Cianfrocca M, Lee S, Von Roenn J, et al. Randomized trial of 
paclitaxel versus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin for advanced human 
immunodeficiency virus -associated Kaposi sarcoma: evidence of symptom 
palliation from chemotherapy. Cancer 2010;116:3969 -3977. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20564162 . 
112. Gbabe OF, Okwundu CI, Dedicoat M, Freeman EE. Treatment of 
severe or progressive Kaposi's sarcoma in HIV -infected adults. Cochrane 
Database Syst Rev 2014:CD003256. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25313415 . 
113. Tourlaki A, Germiniasi F, Rossi LC, et al. Paclitaxel as first - or 
second -line treatment for HIV -negative Kaposi's sarcoma: a retrospective 
study of 58 patients. J Dermatolog Treat 2020;31:183 -185. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30897011 . 
114. Ercolak V, Sahin B, Gunaldi M, et al. Efficacy of paclitaxel in the 
treatment of Kaposi sarcoma. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2015;19:4095 -
4100. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26592833 . 
115. Northfelt DW, Dezube BJ, Thommes JA, et al. Efficacy of pegylated -
liposomal doxorubicin in the treatment of AIDS -related Kaposi's sarcoma 
after failure of standard chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 1997;15:653 -659. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9053490 . 
116. Stebbing J, Wildfire A, Portsmouth S, et al. Paclitaxel for 
anthracycline -resistant AIDS -related Kaposi's sarcoma: clinical and 
angiogenic correlations. Ann Oncol 2003;14:1660 -1666. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14581275 . 
117. Erratum. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:2008. Available at: 
http://ascopubs.org/doi/full/10.1200/JCO.2018.79.3158 . 118. Uldrick TS, Goncalves PH, Abdul -Hay M, et al. Assessment of the 
safety of pembrolizumab in patients With HIV and advanced cancer - a 
phase 1 study. JAMA Oncol 2019;5:1332 -1339. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31154457 . 
119. Reid EG, Suazo A, Lensing SY, et al. Pilot trial AMC -063: Safety and 
efficacy of bortezomib in AIDS -associated Kaposi sarcoma. Clin Cancer 
Res 2020;26:558 -565. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31624104 . 
120. Strother RM, Gregory KM, Pastakia SD, et al. Retrospective analysis 
of the efficacy of gemcitabine for previously treated AIDS -associated 
Kaposi's sarcoma in western Kenya. Oncology 2010;78:5 -11. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20215784 . 
121. Busakhala NW, Waako PJ, Strother MR, et al. Randomized phase IIA 
trial of gemcitabine compared with bleomycin plus vincristine for treatment 
of Kaposi's sarcoma in patients on combination antiretroviral therapy in 
Western Kenya. J Glob Oncol 2018:1 -9. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30241150 . 
122. Nasti G, Errante D, Talamini R, et al. Vinorelbine is an effective and 
safe drug for AIDS -related Kaposi's sarcoma: results of a phase II study. J 
Clin Oncol 2000;18:1550 -1557. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10735904 . 
123. Brambilla L, Recalcati S, Tourlaki A. Vinorelbine therapy in classic 
Kaposi's sarcoma: a retrospective study of 20 patients. Eur J Dermatol 
2015;25:535 -538. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26552718 . 
124. Brambilla L, Boneschi V, Fossati S, et al. Vinorelbine therapy for 
Kaposi's sarcoma in a kidney transplant patient. Dermatology 
1997;194:281 -283. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9187850 . 
125. Schwartsmann G, Sprinz E, Kromfield M, et al. Clinical and 
pharmacokinetic study of oral etoposide in patients with AIDS -related 
Kaposi's sarcoma with no prior exposure to cytotoxic therapy. J Clin Oncol PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive  Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025 
Kaposi Sarcoma  
 
MS-24 1997;15:2118 -2124. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9164226 . 
126. Sprinz E, Caldas AP, Mans DR, et al. Fractionated doses of oral 
etoposide in the treatment of patients with aids -related kaposi sarcoma: a 
clinical and pharmacologic study to improve therapeutic index. Am J Clin 
Oncol 2001;24:177 -184. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11319295 . 
127. Evans SR, Krown SE, Testa MA, et al. Phase II evaluation of low -
dose oral etoposide for the treatment of relapsed or progressive AIDS -
related Kaposi's sarcoma: an AIDS Clinical Trials Group clinical study. J 
Clin Oncol 2002;20:3236 -3241. Available at:  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12149296 . 
128. Tas F, Sen F, Keskin S, Kilic L. Oral etoposide as first -line therapy in 
the treatment of patients with advanced classic Kaposi's sarcoma (CKS): a 
single -arm trial (oral etoposide in CKS). J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 
2013;27:789 -792. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22188463 . 
129. Cao W, Vyboh K, Routy B, et al. Imatinib for highly chemoresistant 
Kaposi sarcoma in a patient with long -term HIV control: a case report and 
literature review. Curr Oncol 2015;22:e395 -399. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26628884 . 
130. Koon HB, Bubley GJ, Pantanowitz L, et al. Imatinib -induced 
regression of AIDS -related Kaposi's sarcoma. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:982 -
989. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15572730 . 
131. Koon HB, Krown SE, Lee JY, et al. Phase II trial of imatinib in AIDS -
associated Kaposi's sarcoma: AIDS Malignancy Consortium Protocol 042. 
J Clin Oncol 2014;32:402 -408. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24378417 . 
132. Zer A, Icht O, Yosef L, et al. Phase II single -arm study of nivolumab 
and ipilimumab (Nivo/Ipi) in previously treated classical Kaposi sarcoma 
(cKS). Ann Oncol 2022;33:720 -727. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35339649 . 133. Fortino S, Santoro M, Iuliano E, et al. Treatment of Kaposi's Sarcoma 
(KS) with nab -paclitaxel [abstract]. Ann Oncol 2016;27:suppl_4: iv124. 
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1093/annonc/mdw345.63 . 
134. Delyon J, Biard L, Renaud M, et al. PD -1 blockade with 
pembrolizumab in classic or endemic Kaposi's sarcoma: a multicentre, 
single -arm, phase 2 study. Lancet Oncol 2022;23:491 -500. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35279271 . 
135. Little RF, Wyvill KM, Pluda JM, et al. Activity of thalidomide in AIDS -
related Kaposi's sarcoma. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:2593 -2602. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10893291 . 
136. Fife K, Howard MR, Gracie F, et al. Activity of thalidomide in AIDS -
related Kaposi's sarcoma and correlation with HHV8 titre. Int J STD AIDS 
1998;9:751 -755. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9874123 . 
137. Dantal J, Soulillou JP. Immunosuppressive drugs and the risk of 
cancer after organ transplantation. N Engl J Med 2005;352:1371 -1373. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15800234 . 
138. Pantanowitz L, Fruh K, Marconi S, et al. Pathology of rituximab -
induced Kaposi sarcoma flare. BMC Clin Pathol 2008;8:7. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18651955 . 
 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:44:40 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.