Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Multiple Myeloma
 
Version 2.2026 — July 16, 2025
Continue
NCCN.orgNCCN Guidelines for Patients® available at www.nccn.org/patientsNCCN recognizes the importance of clinical trials and encourages participation when applicable and available. 
Trials should be designed to maximize inclusiveness and broad representative enrollment.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
NCCN Guidelines Panel Disclosuresξ Bone marrow 
transplantation
‡ Hematology/
Hematologic Oncology
Þ Internal medicine† Medical oncology
¥ Patient advocacy
§ Radiation oncology
*  Discussion section 
writing committee Continue*Shaji K. Kumar, MD/Chair ‡  
Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center
*Natalie S. Callander, MD/Vice Chair ‡ ξ 
University of Wisconsin  
Carbone Cancer Center 
Kehinde Adekola, MD, MSCI ‡  
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer  
Center of Northwestern University
Larry D. Anderson, Jr., MD, PhD ‡  
UT Southwestern Simmons  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
*Muhamed Baljevic, MD ‡ Þ ξ 
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center
Rachid Baz, MD ‡ 
Moffitt Cancer Center
Erica Campagnaro, MD ‡ 
University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center
Caitlin Costello, MD ‡ Þ ξ 
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
Christopher D'Angelo, MD ‡  
Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
  Benjamin Derman, MD † ‡
  The UChicago Medicine  
  Comprehensive Cancer Center
Srinivas Devarakonda, MD ‡  
The Ohio State University Comprehensive 
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  
and Solove Research Institute 
Noura Elsedawy, MD † 
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital/  
The University of Tennessee  
Health Science CenterAmandeep Godara, MD ‡ 
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of Utah
Kelly Godby, MD ‡ 
O'Neal Comprehensive  
Cancer Center at UAB
Jens Hillengass, MD, PhD ‡ 
Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center
Leona Holmberg, MD, PhD ‡ ξ  
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
Myo Htut, MD ‡ Þ  
City of Hope National Medical Center
Carol Ann Huff, MD † ‡  
Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center
Malin Hultcrantz, MD, PhD ‡  
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
Yubin Kang, MD ‡ † ξ 
Duke Cancer Institute
Sarah Larson, MD † ‡ 
UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
Hans C. Lee, MD ‡ 
The University of Texas  
MD Anderson Cancer Center
Michaela Liedtke, MD ‡ 
Stanford Cancer Institute
Thomas Martin, MD ‡ 
UCSF Helen Diller Family  
Comprehensive Cancer Center 
James Omel, MD ¥ 
Patient AdvocateTimothy J. Robinson, MD, PhD §  
Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital 
Aaron Rosenberg, MD ‡ ξ 
UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center
Shayna R. Sarosiek, MD ‡ 
Dana-Farber/Brigham and  
Women's Cancer Center
Mark A. Schroeder, MD ‡ 
Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-  
Jewish Hospital and Washington  
University School of Medicine
Daniel Sherbenou, MD, PhD †  
University of Colorado Cancer Center
Attaya Suvannasankha, MD ‡ 
Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon 
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Jason Valent, MD ‡ 
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/  
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center and 
Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
Asya Nina Varshavsky-Yanovsky, MD, PhD  † ‡ 
Fox Chase Cancer Center
Dan Vogl, MD ‡  
Abramson Cancer Center  
at the University of Pennsylvania
NCCN
Emily Kovach 
Rashmi Kumar, PhDPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel Members
Summary of Guidelines Updates
Initial Diagnostic Workup and Clinical Findings (MYEL-1)
Solitary Plasmacytoma or Solitary Plasmacytoma with Minimal Marrow Involvement: 
Primary Treatment and Follow-up/Surveillance (MYEL-2)
Smoldering Myeloma (Asymptomatic): Primary Treatment and Follow-up/Surveillance (MYEL-3)
Multiple Myeloma (Symptomatic): Primary Treatment and Follow-up/Surveillance (MYEL-4)
Multiple Myeloma (Symptomatic): Response After Primary Therapy and Follow-up Surveillance (MYEL-5)
Multiple Myeloma (Symptomatic): Treatment for Relapse or Progressive Disease (MYEL-6)
Multiple Myeloma with CNS Disease (CNSM-1)
Definitions of Myeloma and Related Plasma-Cell Disorders (MYEL-A)
Disease Staging and Risk Stratification Systems for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-B)
Principles of Imaging (MYEL-C)
Principles of Radiation Therapy (MYEL-D)
Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-E)
Considerations for Myeloma Therapy (MYEL-F)
Myeloma Therapy (MYEL-G)
Principles of Management of CNS Disease in Patients with MM (MYEL-H)
Supportive Care for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-I )
Management of Infections in Patients with Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-J)
Management of Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-K)
Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-L)
Monoclonal Gammopathy of Clinical Significance
• Monoclonal Gammopathy of Renal Significance (MGRS-1)
• Monoclonal Immunoglobulin Deposition Disease (MIDD-1)
• Monoclonal Gammopathy of Neurological Significance (MGNS-1)
POEMS (Polyneuropathy, Organomegaly, Endocrinopathy, Monoclonal Protein, Skin Changes) (POEMS-1)
Abbreviations (ABBR-1)Find an NCCN Member Institution: 
https://www.nccn.org/home/member-
institutions
NCCN Categories of Evidence and 
Consensus: All recommendations 
are category 2A unless otherwise 
indicated. 
See NCCN Categories of Evidence 
and Consensus.
NCCN Categories of Preference:  
All recommendations are considered 
appropriate.
See NCCN Categories of Preference.
The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way . The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may not 
be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2025.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESCONTINUEDUpdates in Version 2.2026 of the NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma from Version 1.2026 include:
MYEL-G (5 of 5)
• Therapy for Previously Treated Multiple Myeloma
Preferred, After at least four prior lines of therapy, including an Anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, a PI, and an IMiD:
 ◊Regimen added: Linvoseltamab-gcpt
Updates in Version 1.2026 of the NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma from Version 2.2025 include:
GLOBAL
• Added new sub-section: "Considerations for Special Populations" including Older Adults and Black/African American Individuals on MYEL-F.
• Footnotes referencing MYEL-A have been changed to reflect the new title: Definitions for Myeloma and Related Plasma-Cell Disorders.
MYEL-1
• Initial Diagnostic Workup
Bullet 12 added: Next-generation sequencing (NGS) to assess for TP53 mutation.
• Useful in Certain Circumstances
Bullet 5 revised: Consider  Obtain baseline clon otype identification  at diagnosis  and storage of  or store an aspirate sample for future clonotype 
identification to enable  minimal residual disease (MRD) testing by NGS.
Bullet 9 added: Renal biopsy if albuminuria or abnormal renal function.
Bullet removed: Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array on bone marrow, and/or next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel on bone marrow.
• Clinical Findings
For Renal Significance, bullet added: For Monoclonal Immunoglobulin Deposition Disease (MIDD), MIDD-1.
• Footnote b, first sentence modified: These tests are essential for R-ISS  staging. 
• Footnote h added: Dimopoulos MA, et al. Lancet Oncol 2023;24:e293-e311.
MYEL-2
• Follow-Up/Surveillance
Bullet 5 modified: 24-h urine for total protein and UPEP with UIFE as needed .
Bullet removed: Tests as needed.
• Footnote k, last sentence added: Consider FISH testing on plasmacytoma biopsy if clonal cells are absent or inadequate in the marrow .
• Footnote o, last sentence modified: Patients with soft tissue and head/neck plasmacytoma could be followed less frequently as clinically indicated  after 
initial 3-month follow-up.
MYEL-3
• Primary Treatment
High risk
 ◊Header added: Select patients.
 ◊Bullet 1, regimen added: Daratumumab (category 1).
 ◊Bullet 2, modified: Lenalidomide in select patients  (category 2B).
• Follow-Up/Surveillance
Bullet 1, sub-bullet 5 modified: 24-h urine for total protein, UPEP , and UIFE as clinically indicated , if abnormal at baseline, or if there is significant 
change in FLC levels.  (Also for MYEL-4).
Bullet 2 modified: Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy with FISH,  SNP array , NGS, or multi-parameter flow cytometry as clinically indicated.
• Footnote r modified: BMPCs >20%, M-protein >2 g/dL, and serum FLC ration (FLCr) >20 are variables used to risk stratify patients at diagnosis. 
Patients with two or more of these factors are considered to have high risk of progression to MM. For risk criteria, refer to Lakshman A, et al. Blood 
Cancer J 2018;8:59 and Mateos MV, et al. Blood Cancer J 2020;10:102.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESCONTINUEDUpdates in Version 1.2026 of the NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma from Version 2.2025 include:
• Footnote u modified: Consider consultation for hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) and collection of hematopoietic stem cells for future use transplant 
procedures.
MYEL-4
• Clinical Findings, first column, row added: For CNS disease, see CNSM-1.
• Primary treatment 
Top row, link to NCCN Guidelines for Supportive Care added.
• Footnote x modified: See General Considerations for Myeloma Therapy( MYEL-F)  for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations 
(eg, Black/African American individuals).  (Also for MYEL-5 and MYEL-6)
MYEL-5
• Response After Primary Therapy, third row modified:
Header added from below text: Useful in Certain Circumstances  for patients with high risk of progression/relapse  under certain circumstances. .
• Footnote ee added: Whole-body FDG-PET/CT is recommended on day 100 after autologous HCT.
• Footnote removed: Allogeneic HCT should preferentially be done in the context of a trial when possible. (Also for MYEL-6).
MYEL-6
• Multiple Myeloma (Symptomatic)
First column, row added: For CNS disease, see CNSM-1.
Treatment column
 ◊Bullet 1 modified: Discuss the patient's preferences and goals of care through a shared decision-making process.
 ◊Bullet 2, sub-bullet 2 modified: Palliative care specialist and supportive care  for symptom management (See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative Care 
and NCCN Guidelines for Supportive Care).
• Footnote y added: Supportive Care Treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-H).
CNSM-1
• Multiple Myeloma with CNS Disease section added.
MYEL-A
• Table reformatted.
• Definitions for solitary plasmacytoma with and without minimal marrow involvement and plasma cell leukemia added.
MYEL-B (1 of 2)
• Table reformatted.
• Column 2, row 3, bullet 2 modified: And either high-risk chromosomal abnormalities  [del(17p) or translocation (4;14) or translocation (14;16)]  
abnormalities  by FISH or Serum LDH > the ULN.
• IMS-IMWG column added.
• Reference 3 added: Avet-Loiseau H, Davies FE, Samur MK, et al. International Myeloma Society/International Myeloma Working Group Consensus 
Recommendations on the Definition of High-Risk Multiple Myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2025:Jco2401893.
MYEL-B (2 of 2)
• Column 1, bullet 6 added: Markers of high proliferation rate.
• Footnote moved to MYEL-A table: Presence of ≥5% of plasma cells in circulation is defined as plasma cell leukemia.
MYEL-C
• Imaging for Initial Diagnostic Workup...
Bullet 1 modified: Whole-body  FDG-PET/CT (preferred)...
• Imaging of Solitary Plasmacytoma
Bullet 1, sentence 2 modified: For solitary osseous plasmacytoma , whole-body MRI (or FDG-PET/CT if MRI not available) is the first choice for initial 
evaluation  of solitary osseous plasmacytoma .PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESCONTINUEDUpdates in Version 1.2026 of the NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma from Version 2.2025 include:
• Imaging for Follow-up of MM
Bullet 1, sentence 1 modified: Advanced whole-body imaging (ie, FDG-PET/CT, low-dose CT, whole-body  MRI without contrast) is recommended as 
needed.
MYEL-D (2 of 2)
• General Principles, bullet 6 added: For principles of RT for CNS disease in patients with MM, see Principles of Management of CNS Disease in Patients 
with MM (MYEL-H). 
MYEL-F
• Pages extensively revised.
MYEL-G (1 of 5)
• Header revised: Primary Therapy for Transplant  HCT Candidates.
Preferred, regimen added: Isatuximab-irfc/Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1).
Other Recommended
 ◊Regimen moved from Useful in Certain Circumstances: Daratumumab/Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone.
 ◊Regimen moved from Useful in Certain Circumstances: Isatuximab-irfc/Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone.
• Maintenance Therapy
Useful in Certain Circumstances, regimen added: Daratumumab.
• Footnote c modified: See General Considerations for Myeloma Therapy( MYEL-F)  for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations 
(eg, Black/African American individuals).  (Also for MYEL-G 2, 3, 4, and 5)
• Footnote removed: Preferred primarily as initial treatment in patients with acute renal insufficiency or those who have no access to proteasome inhibitor 
(PI)/lenalidomide/dexamethasone. Consider switching to PI/lenalidomide/dexamethasone after renal function improves. (Also for MYEL-G [2 of 5]).
MYEL-G (2 of 5)
• Header revised: Primary Therapy For  if HCT Deferred or Non-Transplant Candidates  if HCT is not Indicated.
• Preferred, regimen added: Daratumumab/Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (for patients <80 years old who are not frail) (category 1).
• Other Recommended
Regimen added: Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1).
Regimen added: Isatuximab-irfc/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone.
• Useful in Certain Circumstances: Regimen Added: Ixazomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone.
• Footnote i added: Strongly consider collecting and storing stem cells for future HCT.
MYEL-G (4 of 5)
• Other recommended, regimen removed: Carfilzomib (twice-weekly)/dexamethasone (category 1).
• Useful in Certain Circumstances, regimen modified: Carfilzomib (weekly) /Dexamethasone (category 1).
MYEL-G (5 of 5)
• Useful In Certain Circumstances
Bullet 1 modified: Belantamab mafodotin-blmf ( as if available through compassionate use expanded access  program).
Bullet 3, 4, 5, 6: regimens moved from Other Recommended.
MYEL-H
• Section added: Principles of Management of CNS Disease in Patients with MM.
MYEL-I
• Footnote removed: An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESUpdates in Version 1.2026 of the NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma from Version 2.2025 include:
MYEL-J (1 of 2)
• Page sub-header added: For additional recommendations on infection management, see NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Cancer-
Related Infections. (Also for MYEL-J [2 of 2])
• Common Bacterial Infections
Levofloxacin row, BsAb indication modified: Consider starting with therapy and administer throughout the first cycle  Start when ANC <500 or per 
clinician discretion and continue until neutrophil recovery.
Immunoglobulin replacement row
 ◊BsAb indication modified: Consider f or the duration of BsAb therapy based on clinical context .
 ◊Other Indications modified: For IgG <400 mg/dL and/or recurrent life-threatening infections.
MYEL-J (2 of 2)
• Common Viral and Fungal Infections
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP) row, CAR-T and BsAb indication modified: Start with therapy and continue for at least 6 months after the 
infusion  until end of therapy  or until CD4 ≥200/mm3 (whichever is longer).
MYEL-L
• Treatment options, bullet removed: Use other plasma cell-directed therapy with caution.
• Bone-Modifying Agent Dosing in Patients with Multiple Myeloma who Have Renal Impairment Table
Dosing timing removed from table.
None row, Zoledronic Acid column entry modified: 4 mg IV every 3-4 wks  1–3 months.
• Footnote b modified: Consider other diagnosis such as amyloid and light chain disease for patients with significant proteinuria. Dimopoulos MA, et al. 
Lancet Oncol 2023;24:e293-e311.
• Footnote removed: An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute.
MIDD-1
• Monoclonal Immunoglobulin Deposition Disease section added.
POEMS-2
• Treatment
Bullet 3 and sub-bullets modified: 
 ◊In patients who are not candidates for HCT  transplant ineligible , options include:
 –All regimens listed above
 –Lenalidomide/dexamethasone
 –Bortezomib/Dexamethasone
 –Melphalan/Dexamethasone
 –Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
 –Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
Header added: Useful in Certain Circumstances
 ◊Bullet added: Myeloma systemic therapy options can be used in certain circumstances (see MYEL-G).PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-1a Frailty assessment should be considered in older adults.  
See NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology .
b These tests are essential for staging. See Disease Staging and Risk Stratification 
for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-B) .
c Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-L) .
d Principles of Imaging (MYEL-C).e CD138-positive selected sample is strongly recommended for optimized yield.
f 1q21 amplification is defined as ≥4 copies detected by FISH, and a gain is 
defined as 3 copies of 1q21.
g If NT-proBNP is not available, BNP can be performed.
h Dimopoulos MA, et al. Lancet Oncol 2023;24:e293-e311.
i Definitions of Myeloma and Related Plasma-Cell Disorders (MYEL-A).INITIAL DIAGNOSTIC WORKUPaCLINICAL FINDINGS
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• If whole-body low-dose CT or FDG-PET/
CT is negative, consider whole-body MRI 
without contrast to discern smoldering 
myeloma from multiple myeloma (MM)d
• Tissue biopsy to confirm suspected 
plasmacytoma
• Echocardiogram
• Evaluation for light chain amyloidosis, 
if appropriate (See NCCN Guidelines for 
Systemic Light Chain Amyloidosis)
• Obtain baseline clonotype identification at 
diagnosis or store an aspirate sample for 
future clonotype identification to enable 
minimal residual disease (MRD) testing by 
NGS
• Serum viscosity
• Hepatitis B and hepatitis C testing and 
human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV) 
screening as required
• Assess for circulating plasma cells as 
clinically indicated
• Renal biopsy if albuminuria or abnormal 
renal functionhSolitary plasmacytomai
(MYEL-2)
Smoldering myeloma 
(asymptomatic)i 
(MYEL-3)
Multiple myeloma 
(symptomatic)i 
(MYEL-4)• History and physical (H&P) exam
• CBC, differential, and platelet count
• Peripheral blood smear
• Serum BUN/creatinine, electrolytes, liver function 
tests, albumin,b calcium, serum uric acid, serum 
lactacte dehydrogenase (LDH),b and beta-2 
microglobulinb
• Creatinine clearance (calculated or measured 
directly)c
• Serum quantitative immunoglobulins, serum protein 
electrophoresis (SPEP), and serum immunofixation 
electrophoresis (SIFE)
• 24-h urine for total protein, urine protein 
electrophoresis (UPEP), and urine immunofixation 
electrophoresis (UIFE)
• Serum free light chain (FLC) assay
• Whole-body FDG-PET/CT (preferred) or low-dose CTd
• Unilateral bone marrow aspirate and biopsy, 
including immunohistochemistry (IHC) and/or multi-
parameter flow cytometry
• Plasma cell fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)b  
panel on bone marrowe [del(13), del (17p13), 
t(4;14), t(11;14), t(14;16), t(14:20), 1q21 gain/1q21 
amplification,f 1p deletion]
• Next-generation sequencing (NGS) to assess for 
TP53 mutation
• N-terminal prohormone B-type natriuretic peptide 
(NT-proBNP)/BNPgFor Renal  
Significance,  
see MGRS-1
• For Monoclonal  
Immunoglobulin  
Deposition  
Disease (MIDD),  
see MIDD-1Monoclonal 
gammopathies 
of clinical 
significance For 
Neurological  
Significance,  
see MGNS-1
Polyneuropathy, Organomegaly, 
Endocrinopathy, Monoclonal 
Protein, Skin Changes  
(POEMS-1)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-2d Principles of Imaging (MYEL-C) .
j All criteria must be present for the diagnosis. For diagnostic criteria, see 
Definitions Myeloma and Related Plasma-Cell Disorders (MYEL-A) .
k Solitary plasmacytoma with 10% or more bone marrow plasma cells (BMPCs) 
is regarded as active (symptomatic) MM and systemic therapy should be 
considered. Consider FISH testing on plasmacytoma biopsy if clonal cells are 
absent or inadequate in the marrow.
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (MYEL-D) .
m Consider surgery if structurally unstable or if there is neurologic compromise due 
to mass effect. n Systemic therapy may be indicated in patients with high risk of progression 
based on the clinical context.
o Reassess after at least 3 months following radiation as the assessment of 
response with imaging may not be accurate if the scans are performed sooner. 
Patients with soft tissue and head/neck plasmacytoma could be followed less 
frequently as clinically indicated after initial 3-month follow-up. 
p Whole-body FDG-PET/CT is the first choice for initial and continued evaluation 
of solitary extraosseous plasmacytoma. Whole-body MRI (or PET/CT if MRI 
is not available) is the first choice for initial evaluation of solitary osseous 
plasmacytoma (If whole-body MRI is not available, then consider MRI of the 
spine and pelvis, whole-body FDG-PET/CT, or low-dose whole-body CT). 
q Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-E) .CLINICAL
FINDINGSPRIMARY
TREATMENTFOLLOW-UP/SURVEILLANCE
Multiple 
Myeloma 
(symptomatic) 
(MYEL-4)Solitary
plasmacytoma
or
Solitary 
plasmacytoma 
with minimal 
marrow 
involvementj,kProgressive 
Diseaseq
or
Response 
followed by 
progressionqRestage 
with 
myeloma 
workupFollow-up interval, every 3–6 monthso:
• CBC, differential, and platelet count 
• Serum chemistry for creatinine and corrected 
calcium 
• Serum quantitative immunoglobulins, SPEP, with 
SIFE
• Serum FLC assay
• 24-hour urine for total protein and UPEP with 
UIFE, as needed
• Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy as indicated 
• All plasmacytomas should be imaged yearly, 
preferably with the same technique used at 
diagnosis, for at least 5 yearsd,p
• See NCCN Guidelines for SurvivorshipRTl ± 
surgerym,n
or 
Consider 
clinical trialPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-3d Principles of Imaging (MYEL-C) .
i Definitions of Myeloma and Related Plasma-Cell Disorders (MYEL-A) .
r For risk criteria, refer to Lakshman A, et al. Blood Cancer J 2018;8:59 and 
Mateos MV, et al. Blood Cancer J 2020;10:102.s Patients with rising parameters are considered high risk and should be closely 
monitored.
t The NCCN Panel strongly recommends enrolling eligible patients with smoldering 
myeloma in clinical trials.
u Consider collection of hematopoietic stem cells for future use.PRIMARY TREATMENT FOLLOW-UP/SURVEILLANCE
Multiple 
Myeloma 
(symptomatic) 
(MYEL-4)CLINICAL FINDINGS
Progression 
to 
symptomatic 
myeloma • Every 3–6 months: 
CBC, differential, platelet count 
Creatinine, corrected calcium
Serum quantitative 
immunoglobulins, SPEP, SIFE
Serum FLC assay 
24-hour urine for total protein, 
UPEP, and UIFE as clinically 
indicated
• Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy 
with FISH, NGS, or multi-parameter 
flow cytometry as clinically 
indicated
• Whole-body MRI without contrast, 
low-dose CT, FDG-PET/CT annually 
or as needed, ideally with the same 
technique used at diagnosisd
• See NCCN Guidelines for 
SurvivorshipSmoldering 
myeloma
(asymptomatic)iClinical trialt
or 
Observe at 3- to 
6-month intervalss 
(category 1)Low riskr
High riskr,sClinical trialt 
(preferred)
or 
Observe at 3-month 
intervals as clinically 
indicateds
or
Select patients:
• Daratumumab 
(category 1)
• Lenalidomide 
(category 2B)uPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Response 
after primary  
therapy
(MYEL-5)
MM 
(symptomatic)i,vInitiate myeloma 
therapyw,x and bone- 
targeting treatmenty 
+ 
Supportive care treatment 
as indicated for symptom 
managementc,y (also 
see NCCN Guidelines for 
Supportive Care)
Assess for candidacy for 
transplant after starting 
therapy and reassess for 
transplant as performance 
status improvesz,aa
• Refer to hematopoietic 
cell transplant (HCT) 
center
• Harvest hematopoietic 
stem cells (consider 
for 2 transplants if 
appropriate)Responseq
Progressionq• Laboratory assessments appropriate for monitoring 
treatment toxicities may include: complete blood count 
(CBC) with differential and metabolic panel
• Serum quantitative immunoglobulins, SPEP, and SIFEbb
• 24-hour urine for total protein, UPEP, and UIFEbb as 
clinically indicated
• Serum FLC assay
• Whole-body MRI without contrast, low-dose CT, FDG-
PET/CT annually or as clinically indicated, ideally with 
the same technique used at diagnosisd
• Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy at relapse with FISH 
as clinically indicated
• Consider MRD testing as indicated for prognostication 
after shared decision with patient
• See NCCN Guidelines for SurvivorshipPRIMARY 
TREATMENTFOLLOW-UP/SURVEILLANCE CLINICAL
FINDINGS
MYEL-4c Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-L) .
d Principles of Imaging (MYEL-C) .
i Definitions Myeloma and Related Plasma-Cell Disorders (MYEL-A).
q Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-E).
v Disease Staging and Risk Stratification for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-B).
w Myeloma Therapy (MYEL-G).x See MYEL-F for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations 
(eg, Black/African American individuals).
y Supportive Care Treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-I).
z Autologous transplantation: Category 1 evidence supports proceeding directly 
after primary therapy to high-dose therapy and HCT. Collecting stem cells and 
delaying HCT is also an option. See Discussion . 
aa Renal dysfunction and advanced age are not contraindications to transplant.
bb Needed only if protein electrophoresis is negative during follow-up.Additional  
Treatment  
(MYEL-6)(For MM with CNS 
disease, see CNSM-1)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-5q Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-E).
w Myeloma Therapy (MYEL-G).
x See MYEL-F for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations 
(eg, Black/African American individuals).
z Autologous transplantation: Category 1 evidence supports proceeding directly 
after primary therapy to high-dose therapy and HCT. Collecting stem cells and 
delaying HCT is also an option. See Discussion . aa Renal dysfunction and advanced age are not contraindications to transplant.
cc Patients with stable disease can be considered for autologous HCT.
dd Follow up with the tests listed on MYEL-4 under Follow-up/Surveillance. 
ee Whole-body FDG-PET/CT is recommended around day 100 after autologous 
HCT.
 ff The length of therapy should be balanced with toxicity and depth of response 
and disease status. MULTIPLE MYELOMA (SYMPTOMATIC) FOLLOW-UP/SURVEILLANCE
Response 
after 
primary 
therapyq,ccRelapse or 
progressionq 
(MYEL-6)Continuous myeloma therapy 
or maintenance therapyw,x,dd,ff
Useful in Certain Circumstances 
for patients with high risk of 
progression/relapse: 
Tandem autologous or allogeneic 
HCTdd,eeResponse or 
stable diseaseqMaintenance therapy 
(category 1)w,x,dd,ffAutologousz,aa,cc,dd,ee HCT (category 1)Response or 
stable diseaseqMaintenance therapy 
(category 1)w,x,dd,ffPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-6Continue palliative 
care; consider 
re-evaluation of 
goals of care and 
hospice initiation 
(See NCCN 
Guidelines for 
Supportive Care  and 
NCCN Guidelines 
for Palliative Care)MULTIPLE MYELOMA 
(SYMPTOMATIC) TREATMENT
Relapseq
or 
Progressive 
diseaseqClinical trial, if eligible
or
Therapy for previously 
treated myelomaw,x,dd
or 
Autologous HCTdd,gg
or
Allogeneic HCTdd,gg,hhRefractory diseaseq 
and lack of treatment 
options
q Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-E). 
w Myeloma Therapy (MYEL-G).
x See MYEL-F for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations (eg, Black/African American individuals).
y Supportive Care Treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-H) .
dd Follow up with the tests listed on MYEL-4 under Follow-up/Surveillance. 
gg Assess for HCT candidacy.
hh Donor lymphocyte infusion can be considered in patients with disease relapse after allogeneic HCT.• Discuss the patient's 
preferences and goals of care
• Consider referral to: 
Chimeric antigen receptor 
(CAR) T-cell therapy specialist
Palliative care specialist and 
supportive carey for symptom 
management (See NCCN 
Guidelines for Palliative Care 
and NCCN Guidelines for 
Supportive Care)
(For MM with 
CNS disease, 
see CNSM-1)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma with CNS Disease
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CNSM-1a Hyperammonemic encephalopathy is a rare presentation of myeloma–this is not considered CNS involvement and resolves with systemic plasma cell-directed therapy .  
In addition, hyperviscosity and hypercalcemia may also cause neurologic symptoms but is not considered CNS involvement. CNS involvement may occur as part of 
initial myeloma presentation or relapse with or without systemic involvement.
b Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) SPEP is not appropriate for diagnosis of CNS disease in patients with MM. WORKUPbDIAGNOSISbCLINICAL 
PRESENTATION 
OF CNS 
INVOLVEMENTa
Confusion, 
headache, 
visual 
symptoms, 
weakness, 
cranial nerve 
palsiesEssential
• Brain and spine 
MRI with and 
without contrast
• Lumbar 
puncture with 
flow cytometry, 
cytopathology, cell 
count, total protein
• Workup for 
infections
Useful in Certain 
Circumstances
• Biopsy of affected 
tissue if above test 
results are negative 
and suspicion is 
highDefinitive Diagnosis
• Clonal plasma cells 
observed in CSF by 
immunophenotyping
• Tissue diagnosis of plasma 
cell myeloma in affected 
CNS tissue
Probable Diagnosis
• Leptomeningeal 
enhancement or 
parenchymal lesions on 
MRI without definitive clonal 
plasma cells demonstrated
Note: Extension of skull 
or spinal plasmacytoma 
without meningeal infiltration 
causing compressive 
neurologic disease is not 
considered central nervous 
system (CNS) disease 
and should be treated per 
treatment guidelines for MM 
(MYEL-G) MANAGEMENT
• Multimodality therapy 
(CNSM-2)
and
 
• Consider referral 
to palliative care 
specialist and 
supportive care 
for symptom 
management (See 
NCCN Guidelines for 
Palliative Care and 
NCCN Guidelines for 
Supportive Care)RESPONSE EVALUATION
• Lumbar puncture (LP) 
with flow cytometry, 
cytopathology, cell 
count
and/or
• Repeat MRI imaging for 
CNS evaluation (most 
often brain and spine)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
a  Adapted with permission from Rajkumar SV, Dimopoulos MA, Palumbo A, et al. International Myeloma Working Group updated criteria for the diagnosis of multiple 
myeloma. Lancet Oncol 2014;15:e538-e548.
b BMPCs >20%, M-protein >2 g/dL, and FLCr >20 are variables used to risk stratify patients at diagnosis. Patients with two or more of these risk factors are considered 
to have a high risk of progression to MM. Lakshman A, Rajkumar SV, Buadi FK, et al. Risk stratification of smoldering multiple myeloma incorporating revised IMWG 
diagnostic criteria. Blood Cancer J 2018;8:59.
c Other examples of active disease include: repeated infections, amyloidosis, light chain deposition disease, or hyperviscosity.DEFINITIONS OF MYELOMA AND RELATED PLASMA-CELL DISORDERS
MYEL-ADisease Definition
Smoldering Myelomaa,b 
(Asymptomatic)• Serum monoclonal protein ≥3 g/dL
or
• Bence-Jones protein ≥500 mg/24 h 
and/or
• Clonal bone marrow plasma cells (BMPCs) 10%–59%
and
• Absence of myeloma-defining events or amyloidosis
Multiple Myelomaa,c
(Symptomatic)• Clonal BMPCs ≥10% or biopsy-proven bony or extramedullary plasmacytoma and any one or more of the following myeloma-
defining events: 
• Myeloma-defining events :
Evidence of end organ damage that can be attributed to the underlying plasma cell proliferative disorder , specifically:
 ◊Hypercalcaemia: serum calcium >0·25 mmol/L (>1 mg/dL) higher than the upper limit of normal or >2·75 mmol/L (>11 mg/dL)
 ◊Renal insufficiency: creatinine clearance <40 mL per min or serum creatinine >177 μmol/L (>2 mg/dL)
 ◊Anaemia: haemoglobin value of >20 g/L below the lower limit of normal, or a haemoglobin value <100 g/L
 ◊Bone lesions: one or more osteolytic lesions on skeletal radiography, CT, or PET-CT
Any one or more of the following biomarkers of malignancy:
 ◊Clonal bone marrow plasma cell percentage ≥60%
 ◊Involved:uninvolved serum free light chain ratio ≥100
 ◊>1 focal lesions on MRI studies
Solitary Plasmacytomaa• Biopsy-proven solitary lesion of bone or soft tissue with evidence of clonal plasma cells
• Normal skeletal survey and MRI (or CT) of spine and pelvis (except for the primary solitary lesion)
• Absence of myeloma defining events
• Normal bone marrow with no evidence of clonal plasma cells
Solitary Plasmacytoma with 
minimal marrow involvementa• Biopsy-proven solitary lesion of bone or soft tissue with evidence of clonal plasma cells
• Normal skeletal survey and MRI (or CT) of spine and pelvis (except for the primary solitary lesion)
• Absence of myeloma defining events
• Clonal bone marrow plasma cells <10%
Plasma Cell Leukemia • Presence of ≥5% of plasma cells in circulationPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-B 
1 OF 2DISEASE STAGING AND RISK STRATIFICATION SYSTEMS FOR MULTIPLE MYELOMA
1 Palumbo A, Avet-Loiseau H, Oliva S, et al. Revised International Staging System 
for Multiple Myeloma: A Report from International Myeloma Working Group. J Clin 
Oncol 2015;33:2863-2869.
2 D'Agostino M, Cairns DA, Lahuerta JJ, et al. Second revision of the international 
staging system (R2-ISS) for overall survival in multiple myeloma: A European 
Myeloma Network (EMN) report within the harmony project. J Clin Oncol 
2022;40:3406-3418.
3 Avet-Loiseau H, Davies FE, Samur MK, et al. International Myeloma Society/
International Myeloma Working Group Consensus Recommendations on the 
Definition of High-Risk Multiple Myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2025:Jco2401893a R2-ISS is only validated for newly diagnosed Multiple Myeloma. 
b For R2-ISS classification a numerical value is assigned to each risk factor based 
on their influence on OS: ISS-III is 1.5 points, ISS-II is 1 point, del(17p) is 1 point, 
t(4;14) is 1 point, 1q+ is 0.5 points, and serum LDH > the ULN is 1 point.International Staging System 
(ISS)Revised-ISS (R-ISS)1R2-ISS2,aIMS-IMWG3
ISS Stage I
• Serum beta-2 microglobulin 
<3.5 mg/L
• Serum albumin ≥3.5 g/dLR-ISS Stage I
• ISS stage I and standard 
risk chromosomal 
abnormalities by FISH
• Serum LDH ≤ the ULNLow-risk: 0 pointsb
• Not ISS stage II or III
• Serum LDH ≤ the ULN
• del(17p), t(4;14), 1q+: Not detectedStandard Risk
• All patients not meeting criteria for HR
ISS Stage II
• Not ISS stage I or IIIR-ISS Stage II
• Not R-ISS stage I or IIILow-intermediate risk: 0.5–1 pointsb
• ISS stage II or
• Serum LDH > the ULN
•  or
• del(17p) or t(4;14) or 1q+: Detected 
ISS Stage III
• Serum beta-2 microglobulin 
≥5.5 mg/LR-ISS Stage III
• ISS stage III 
• And either high-risk 
chromosomal abnormalities 
[del(17p) or translocation 
(4;14) or translocation 
(14;16)] by FISH or Serum 
LDH > the ULNIntermediate-high risk: 1.5–2.5 pointsb
• Any combination of high-risk features 
that equals a score of 1.5–2.5High-Risk IMS-IMWG
• Del(17p) (>20% of plasma cells) and/or 
TP53 mutation
• One of these translocations co-
occurring with 1q+ and/or del(1p32):
t(4;14)
t(14;16)
t(14;20)
• Monoallelic del(1p32) along with 1q+ or 
biallelic del(1p32)
• High β2M (>5.5 mg/dL) with normal 
creatinine (<1.2 mg/dL)High-risk: 3–5 pointsb
• Any combination of high-risk features 
that equals a score of 3–5PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-B 
2 OF 2DISEASE STAGING AND RISK STRATIFICATION SYSTEMS FOR MULTIPLE MYELOMA
4 Schmidt TM, Fonseca R, Usmani SZ. Chromosome 1q21 abnormalities in 
multiple myeloma. Blood Canc J 2021;11:83.
5 Abdullah N, Baughn LB, Rajkumar SV, et al. Implications of MYC 
Rearrangements in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma. Clin Cancer Res 
2020;26:6581-6588.c Patients presenting with two or more of these cytogenetic abnormalities are 
considered to have very high risk of disease progression/relapse. 
d Sole abnormality in 1q21 is not considered a marker for high risk of progression/
relapse.Factors Considered as High Risk for Progression/Relapse 
For Those with Newly Diagnosed MM For Those with Relapsed MM
• R-ISS III ( MYEL-B 1 of 2)  
• Extramedullary disease 
• Circulating plasma cells 
• Cytogenetic abnormalitiesc
Del(1p32) 
t(4;14) 
t(14;16) 
t(14;20) 
Del(17p)/monosomy 17/TP53 mutation
1q21 gain/1q21 amplificationd,4
 MYC translocation5
• High-risk gene expression profile
  • Markers of high proliferation rate • Disease relapse within 2 years of initial 
therapy when transplant and maintenance 
are used. 
 • Relapse within 18 months in case of non-
transplant–based treatment.  
 • Acquisition of 1q gain/amplification and/
or del(17p)/TP53 mutation
 • Extramedullary disease at relapse and/or 
circulating plasma cellsPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-CPRINCIPLES OF IMAGING 
Imaging for Initial Diagnostic Workup (for patients suspected of having myeloma/solitary plasmacytoma)
• Whole-body FDG-PET/CT (preferred) or whole-body low-dose CT is recommended for initial diagnostic workup of patients suspected of 
having MM or solitary plasmacytoma. Skeletal survey is acceptable in certain circumstances.  
• If FDG-PET/CT or whole-body low-dose CT is negative, whole-body MRI without contrast may be considered to discern smoldering myeloma 
from MM.
Imaging of Solitary Plasmacytoma
• Whole-body FDG-PET/CT is the first choice for initial and continued evaluation of solitary extraosseous plasmacytoma. For solitary osseous 
plasmacytoma, whole-body MRI (or FDG-PET/CT if MRI is not available) is the first choice for initial evaluation.
• Since the risk of progression of solitary plasmacytoma into MM or relapse is relatively high (14%–38% within the first 3 years of diagnosis), 
yearly, follow-up with the imaging technique used at first diagnosis for the first 5 years and subsequently only in case of clinical or 
laboratory signs or symptoms.1 
Imaging for Follow-up  of Smoldering Myeloma
• Advanced whole-body imaging (ie, FDG-PET/CT, low-dose CT, MRI without contrast) is recommended annually or as clinically indicated. If 
imaging findings are the only parameters indicating initiation of treatment and if findings are doubtful, the same imaging technique should 
be repeated after 3 to 6 months. If only an MRI had been performed, whole-body low-dose CT should be done to exclude lytic lesions.
Imaging for Follow-up of MM
• Advanced whole-body imaging (ie, FDG-PET/CT, low-dose CT, MRI without contrast) is recommended as needed. Residual focal lesions 
detected by either FDG-PET/CT or MRI have been shown to be of adverse prognostic significance.2-5
• Patients who do not have measurable levels of M protein or free light chain should be followed using imaging at regular intervals.
References
1 Paiva B, Chandia M, Vidriales MB, et al. Multiparameter flow cytometry for staging of solitary bone plasmacytoma: new criteria for risk of progression to myeloma. 
Blood 2014;124:1300-1303.
2 Walker R, Barlogie B, Haessler J, et al. Magnetic resonance imaging in multiple myeloma: diagnostic and clinical implications. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:1121-1128.
3 Bartel TB, Haessler J, Brown TL, et al. F18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in the context of other imaging techniques and prognostic factors in 
multiple myeloma. Blood 2009;114:2068-2076.
4 Zamagni E, Nanni C, Mancuso K, et al. PET/CT improves the definition of complete response and allows to detect otherwise unidentifiable skeletal progression in 
multiple myeloma. Clin Cancer Res 2015;21:4384-4390.
5 Moreau P, Attal M, Caillot D, et al. Prospective evaluation of magnetic resonance imaging and [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography-computed 
tomography at diagnosis and before maintenance therapy in symptomatic patients with multiple myeloma included in the IFM/DFCI 2009 trial: Results of the IMAJEM 
study. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:2911-2918.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
MYEL-D
1 OF 2Solitary Plasmacytoma
General Principles:
• Radiation therapy (RT) is the intervention of choice for solitary plasmacytoma.
• Treatment of solitary plasmacytomas should be performed using modern treatment principles including imaging-based delineation (MRI, 
CT with contrast, and/or FDG-PET/CT) of a gross tumor volume (GTV), clinical target volume (CTV), and planning target volume (PTV) and 
adjacent organs at risk (OARs). CTV expansions should generally include at least 0.5 cm of margin for microscopic extent, and up to 2–3 
cm for involvement of long bones. PTV margins should be minimized using modern daily image guidance. Treatment of adjacent vertebral 
bodies for spine lesions is not required if there is no suspicion of clinical involvement.
• RT should be utilized with advanced technology (ie, intensity-modulated RT [IMRT], VMAT, protons) when these modalities can help limit 
radiation doses to surrounding OARs. Principles of involved-site RT (ISRT) should be used to avoid large radiation fields and inappropriately 
including uninvolved sites, which will increase the risk of toxicity.
Treatment Information/Dosing :
• Solitary plasmacytoma (MYEL-2)
RT (40–50 Gy in 1.8–2.0 Gy fractions [20–25 total fractions]) to involved site.
Treatment with 35–40 Gy is an acceptable alternative for solitary plasmacytomas <5 cm in size, due to the high rates of local control 
reported for smaller tumors.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
MYEL-D
2 OF 2Multiple Myeloma
General Principles:
•  Treatment recommendations should be made after joint consultation and/or discussion by a multidisciplinary team including surgical, radiation, and 
medical oncologists, and radiologists.
• RT is primarily used for palliation in patients with MM.
• Careful planning in defining the radiation field and radiation technique must be utilized to minimize toxicity to the spinal cord, brain, bone marrow, and 
adjacent OARs as patients may be treated multiple times during their disease course. 
• Careful planning of radiation fields for cord compression in the thoracic area at the level of the heart should be utilized to avoid radiation dose exiting into 
the heart structures, which could lead to cardiac toxicity. 
• If surgical intervention is not indicated for impending fracture, structural instability, or emergent decompression, it should be avoided to circumvent 
potential complications and delays in systemic therapy. RT can result in functional re-ossification in a large proportion of patients.
• For principles of RT for CNS disease in patients with MM, see Principles of Management of CNS Disease in Patients with MM ( MYEL-H).
Timing and Sequencing of Therapy :
• Systemic therapy should not be delayed for RT. Data suggest that systemic therapy and palliative RT can be used concurrently without evidence of 
increased toxicity, but that patients should be carefully monitored for toxicities.  
• If urgent surgical intervention is indicated, RT should be delivered postoperatively to improve pain control and prevent local recurrence. Patients in a 
resource-limited setting with access to systemic therapy may consider forgoing postoperative RT. 
Palliative RT Dosing for MM :
• Low-dose RT (8 Gy x 1 fraction) or 20–30 Gy in 5–15 total fractions can be used as palliative treatment for indications such as uncontrolled pain, for 
impending pathologic fracture, or for impending cord compression. Moderately fractionated courses of 20–25 Gy in 8–10 fractions are generally preferred 
over higher doses (30 Gy) absent extenuating circumstances (eg, severe symptomatic cord compression) to limit toxicity risk and reduce future toxicity risk 
in the event additional irradiation is needed to adjacent or overlapping sites (eg, overlapping sites in the spine/spinal cord. 
• Limited involved sites should be used to limit the impact of irradiation on hematopoietic stem cell harvest or impact on potential future treatments.
• For RT dose constraint suggestions regarding bone marrow and other OARs, see NCCN Guidelines for Hodgkin Lymphoma. 
References
Elhammali A, Amini B, Ludmir EB, et al. New paradigm for radiation in multiple myeloma: 
lower yet effective dose to avoid radiation toxicity. Haematologica 2020;105:e355-e357.
Guerini AE, Tucci A, Alongi F, et al. RR Myelo POINT: A Retrospective Single-Center Study 
Assessing the Role of Radiotherapy in the Management of Multiple Myeloma and Possible 
Interactions with Concurrent Systemic Treatment. Cancers (Basel). 2022;14:2273.
Resende Salgado L, Wang S, Adler A, et al. The Safety Profile of Concurrent Therapy for 
Multiple Myeloma in the Modern Era. Adv Radiat Oncol 2018;4:112-117. Tsang RW, Campbell BA, Goda JS, et al. Radiation Therapy for Solitary Plasmacytoma 
and Multiple Myeloma: Guidelines From the International Lymphoma Radiation Oncology 
Group Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2018;101:794-808.
Tsang RW, Gospodarowicz MK, Pintilie M, et al. Solitary plasmacytoma treated with 
radiotherapy: impact of tumor size on outcome. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2001;50:113-
120.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
IMWG criteria for response assessment including criteria for minimal residual disease (MRD)
Response CategoryaResponse Criteria
IMWG MRD criteria (requires a complete response as defined below)
Sustained MRD-negativeMRD negativity in the marrow (next-generation flow [NGF], next-generation sequencing [NGS], or both) and by imaging as 
defined below, confirmed minimum of 1 year apart. Subsequent evaluations can be used to further specify the duration of 
negativity (eg, MRD-negative at 5 years).b
Flow MRD-negativeAbsence of phenotypically aberrant clonal plasma cells by NGFc on bone marrow aspirates using the EuroFlow standard 
operation procedure for MRD detection in multiple myeloma (or validated equivalent method) with a minimum sensitivity of 1 
in 105 nucleated cells or higher.
Sequencing MRD-negativeAbsence of clonal plasma cells by NGS on bone marrow aspirate in which presence of a clone is defined as less than two 
identical sequencing reads obtained after DNA sequencing of bone marrow aspirates using a validated equivalent method 
with a minimum sensitivity of 1 in 105 nucleated cellsd or higher.
Imaging plus MRD-negativeMRD negativity as defined by NGF or NGS plus disappearance of every area of increased tracer uptake found at baseline or 
a preceding FDG-PET/CT or decrease to less mediastinal blood pool standardized uptake value (SUV) or decrease to less 
than that of surrounding normal tissue.e
Standard IMWG response criteriaf
Stringent complete responseComplete response as defined below plus normal FLC ratiog and absence of clonal cells in bone marrow biopsy by 
immunohistochemistry (κ/λ ratio ≤4:1 or ≥1:2 for κ and λ patients, respectively , after counting ≥100 plasma cells).h
Complete responsei Negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and <5% plasma 
cells in bone marrow aspirates.
Very good partial responseSerum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥90% reduction in serum M-protein 
plus urine M-protein level <100 mg per 24 h.
Partial response≥50% reduction of serum M-protein plus reduction in 24-h urinary M-protein by ≥90% or to <200 mg per 24 h.
If the serum and urine M-protein are unmeasurable, a ≥50% decrease in the difference between involved and uninvolved 
FLC levels is required in place of the M-protein criteria.
If serum and urine M-protein are unmeasurable, and serum-free light assay is also unmeasurable, ≥50% reduction in 
plasma cells is required in place of M-protein, provided baseline bone marrow plasma-cell percentage was ≥30%. In addition 
to these criteria, if present at baseline, a ≥50% reduction in the size (sum of the products of the maximal perpendicular 
diameters [SPD] of measured lesions)j of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required.
Minimal response≥25% but ≤49% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24-h urine M-protein by 50%–89%. In addition to the above 
listed criteria, if present at baseline, a 25%–49% reduction in SPDj of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required.
Reprinted with permission from The Lancet Oncology, 17: Kumar S, Paiva B, Anderson K, et al. International Myeloma Working Group consensus criteria for response 
and minimal residual disease assessment in multiple myeloma, e328-e346, Copyright (2016), with permission from Elsevier.
MYEL-E  
1 OF 3FootnotesRESPONSE CRITERIA FOR MULTIPLE MYELOMA 
(Revised based on the new criteria by International Myeloma Working Group [IMWG])PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Standard IMWG response criteriaf (continued from previous page)
Stable disease• Not recommended for use as an indicator of response; stability of disease is best described by providing the time-to-progression estimates. Not 
meeting criteria for complete response, very good partial response, partial response, minimal response, or progressive disease.
Progressive diseasek,lAny one or more of the following criteria:
• Increase of 25% from lowest confirmed response value in one or more of the following criteria:
• Serum M-protein (absolute increase must be ≥0.5 g/dL);
• Serum M-protein increase ≥1 g/dL, if the lowest M component was ≥5 g/dL;
• Urine M-protein (absolute increase must be ≥200 mg/24 h);
• In patients without measurable serum and urine M-protein levels, the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels (absolute increase must 
be >10 mg/dL);
• In patients without measurable serum and urine M-protein levels and without measurable involved FLC levels, bone marrow plasma-cell percentage 
irrespective of baseline status (absolute increase must be ≥10%);
• Appearance of a new lesion(s), ≥50% increase from nadir in SPDj of >1 lesion, or ≥50% increase in the longest diameter of a previous lesion >1 cm in 
short axis;
• ≥50% increase in circulating plasma cells (minimum of 200 cells per μL) if this is the only measure of disease.
Clinical relapseClinical relapse requires one or more of the following criteria:
• Direct indicators of increasing disease and/or end organ dysfunction (calcium elevation, renal failure, anemia, lytic bone lesions [CRAB features]) 
related to the underlying clonal plasma cell proliferative disorder. It is not used in calculation of time to progression or progression-free survival but is 
listed as something that can be reported optionally or for use in clinical practice;
• Development of new soft tissue plasmacytomas or bone lesions (osteoporotic fractures do not constitute progression);
• Definite increase in the size of existing plasmacytomas or bone lesions. A definite increase is defined as a 50% (and ≥1 cm) increase as measured 
serially by the SPDj of the measurable lesion;
• Hypercalcemia (>11 mg/dL);
• Decrease in hemoglobin of ≥2 g/dL not related to therapy or other non–myeloma-related conditions;
• Rise in serum creatinine by 2 mg/dL or more from the start of the therapy and attributable to myeloma;
• Hyperviscosity related to serum paraprotein.
Relapse from complete
response (to be used 
only if the endpoint is
disease-free survival)Any one or more of the following criteria:
• Reappearance of serum or urine M-protein by immunofixation or electrophoresisi;
• Development of ≥5% plasma cells in the bone marrow;
• Appearance of any other sign of progression (ie, new plasmacytoma, lytic bone lesion, or hypercalcemia) (see above).
Relapse from MRD
negative (to be used 
only if the endpoint is
disease-free survival)Any one or more of the following criteria:
• Loss of MRD negative state (evidence of clonal plasma cells on NGF or NGS, or positive imaging study for recurrence of myeloma);
• Reappearance of serum or urine M-protein by immunofixation or electrophoresis;
• Development of ≥5% clonal plasma cells in the bone marrow;
• Appearance of any other sign of progression (ie, new plasmacytoma, lytic bone lesion, or hypercalcemia).
Reprinted with permission from The Lancet Oncology, 17: Kumar S, Paiva B, Anderson K, et al. International Myeloma Working Group consensus criteria for response 
and minimal residual disease assessment in multiple myeloma, e328-e346, Copyright (2016), with permission from Elsevier.
MYEL-E  
2 OF 3FootnotesRESPONSE CRITERIA FOR MULTIPLE MYELOMA 
(Revised based on the new criteria by International Myeloma Working Group [IMWG])PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-E  
3 OF 3RESPONSE CRITERIA FOR MULTIPLE MYELOMA 
FOOTNOTES
a All response categories require two consecutive assessments made any 
time before starting any new therapy; for MRD there is no need for two 
consecutive assessments, but information on MRD after each treatment 
stage is recommended (eg, after induction, high-dose therapy/autologous 
HCT, consolidation, maintenance). MRD tests should be initiated only at the 
time of suspected complete response. All categories of response and MRD 
require no known evidence of progressive or new bone lesions if radiographic 
studies were performed. However, radiographic studies are not required to 
satisfy these response requirements except for the requirement of FDG-PET if 
imaging MRD-negative status is reported. b Sustained MRD negativity when reported should also annotate the method 
used (eg, sustained flow MRD-negative, sustained sequencing MRD-
negative). c Bone marrow MFC should follow NGF guidelines. The reference NGF method 
is an eight-color two-tube approach, which has been extensively validated. 
The two-tube approach improves reliability, consistency, and sensitivity 
because of the acquisition of a greater number of cells. The eight-color 
technology is widely available globally and the NGF method has already 
been adopted in many flow laboratories worldwide. The complete eight-color 
method is most efficient using a lyophilised mixture of antibodies, which 
reduces errors, time, and costs. Five million cells should be assessed. The 
Flow Cytometry Method (FCM) method employed should have a sensitivity of 
detection of at least 1 in 10⁵ plasma cells. Paiva B, Gutierrez NC, Rosinol L, et 
al, for the GEM (Grupo Españolde MM)/PETHEMA (Programa para el Estudio 
de la Terapéutica en Hemopatías Malignas) Cooperative Study Groups. High-
risk cytogenetics and persistent minimal residual disease by multiparameter 
flow cytometry predict unsustained complete response after autologous stem 
cell transplantation in multiple myeloma. Blood 2012;119:687-691.d DNA sequencing assay on bone marrow aspirate should use a validated 
assay. e Criteria used by Zamagni and colleagues, and expert panel (IMPetUs; Italian 
Myeloma Criteria for PET Use). Baseline positive lesions were identified by 
presence of focal areas of increased uptake within bones, with or without any 
underlying lesion identified by CT and present on at least two consecutive 
slices. Alternatively, an SUVmax = 2.5 within osteolytic CT areas >1 cm in size, 
or SUVmax = 1.5 within osteolytic CT areas ≤1 cm in size were considered 
positive. Imaging should be performed once MRD negativity is determined by 
MFC or NGS. Zamagni E, Nanni C, Mancuso K, et al. PET/CT improves the 
definition of complete response and allows to detect otherwise unidentifiable 
skeletal progression in multiple myeloma. Clin Cancer Res 2015;21:4384-4390.f Derived from international uniform response criteria for multiple myeloma. 
Reprinted with permission from The Lancet Oncology, 17: Kumar S, Paiva B, Anderson K, et al. International Myeloma Working Group consensus criteria for response 
and minimal residual disease assessment in multiple myeloma, e328-e346, Copyright (2016), with permission from Elsevier.Minor response definition and clarifications derived from Rajkumar and colleagues. When 
the only method to measure disease is by serum FLC levels: complete response can be 
defined as a normal FLC ratio of 0.26 to 1.65 in addition to the complete response criteria 
listed previously. Very good partial response in such patients requires a ≥90% decrease 
in the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels. All response categories 
require two consecutive assessments made at any time before the institution of any new 
therapy; all categories also require no known evidence of progressive or new bone lesions 
or extramedullary plasmacytomas if radiographic studies were performed. Radiographic 
studies are not required to satisfy these response requirements. Bone marrow 
assessments do not need to be confirmed. Each category, except for stable disease, will 
be considered unconfirmed until the confirmatory test is performed. The date of the initial 
test is considered as the date of response for evaluation of time dependent outcomes such 
as duration of response. Durie BG, Harousseau JL, Miguel JS, et al, for the International 
Myeloma Working Group. International uniform response criteria for multiple myeloma. 
Leukemia 2006;20:1467-1473.g All recommendations regarding clinical uses relating to serum FLC levels or FLC ratio are 
based on results obtained with the validated serum FLC assay. h Presence/absence of clonal cells on immunohistochemistry is based upon the κ/λ/L ratio. 
An abnormal κ/λ ratio by immunohistochemistry requires a minimum of 100 plasma cells 
for analysis. An abnormal ratio reflecting presence of an abnormal clone is κ/λ of >4:1 or 
<1:2. i Special attention should be given to the emergence of a different monoclonal protein 
following treatment, especially in the setting of patients having achieved a conventional 
complete response, often related to oligoclonal reconstitution of the immune system. 
These bands typically disappear over time and in some studies have been associated with 
a better outcome. Also, appearance of monoclonal IgG κ in patients receiving monoclonal 
antibodies should be differentiated from the therapeutic antibody. j Plasmacytoma measurements should be taken from the CT portion of the PET/CT, or MRI 
scans, or dedicated CT scans where applicable. For patients with only skin involvement, 
skin lesions should be measured with a ruler. Measurement of tumor size will be 
determined by the SPD.k Positive immunofixation alone in a patient previously classified as achieving a complete 
response will not be considered progression. For purposes of calculating time to 
progression and progression-free survival, patients who have achieved a complete 
response and are MRD-negative should be evaluated using criteria listed for progressive 
disease. Criteria for relapse from a complete response or relapse from MRD should be 
used only when calculating disease-free survival. l In the case where a value is felt to be a spurious result per physician discretion (eg, a 
possible laboratory error), that value will not be considered when determining the lowest 
value.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CONSIDERATIONS FOR MYELOMA THERAPY
MYEL-F
1 OF 2 General Principles:
• Systemic therapy should not be delayed for advanced imaging if diagnosis of active myeloma is otherwise clear.
• Quadruplet regimen is preferred. Based on functional status, patients may be started with a 2- or 3-drug regimen with additional drugs added 
as performance status improves.
• Consider dose modifications based on functional status and age.
• Consider discontinuing dexamethasone at earliest possible timepoint, based on response, frailty, and toxicity considerations.
• For additional supportive care while on myeloma therapy, see Supportive Care Treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-I) .
Considerations for Special Populations:
• Older Adults
Frailty assessment should be considered in older adults. See NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology .
For the Myeloma Frailty Score Calculator developed by IMWG for the prognosis, see http://www.myelomafrailtyscorecalculator.net/1
• Black/African American Individuals
Black/African American individuals have the highest rate of myeloma of any race/ethnic group and twice the incidence of all other races 
and ethnicities, earlier age at diagnosis, and present with more severe symptoms at diagnosis including increased anemia, higher calcium 
levels, worse renal dysfunction, and more extramedullary disease at presentation. 
The biology of myeloma in these individuals can also differ. Black/African American individuals are more likely to have chromosome 14 
translocations such as t(11;14), t(14;16), and t(14;20), and are less likely to have high-risk mutations such as del17p and gain/amp 1q 
compared to white individuals. 
Decreased participation in clinical trials exists based on race, ethnicity and age, which leads to limited understanding of whether results of 
the studies apply to all patients.
A study of outcomes of patients with MM showed that without disparities in the overall use of novel agents or autologous HCT, Black/
African American individuals and age <65 years had a superior median overall survival (OS) (7.07 years; 95% CI, 6.36–7.70 years) compared 
with white patients (5.83 years; 95% CI, 5.44–6.09 years; P < .001) (Fillmore NR, et al. Blood 2019;133:2615-2618). 
Toxicity of drugs can vary in Black/African American individuals, including hyperpigmentation of skin with use of IMiDs and higher risk for 
cytokine release syndromes (CRS) during CAR T-cell therapy (Blevins F, et al. Blood 2020;136:23-24; Peres LC, et al. Blood Adv 2024;8:251-
259). 
Due to these differences, in order to reflect populations most affected, it is recommended to conduct equitable and inclusive clinical trials.
1 Palumbo A, Bringhen S, Mateos MV, et al. Geriatric assessment predicts survival and toxicities in elderly myeloma patients: An International Myeloma Working Group 
report. Blood 2015;125:2068-2074.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CONSIDERATIONS FOR MYELOMA THERAPY
MYEL-F
2 OF 2 Additional Consideration for Relapsed/Refractory Disease:
• Consideration for appropriate regimen in previously treated 
myeloma should be based on the context of clinical relapse.
• In order to maximize benefit of systemic therapy, agents/regimens 
may be reconsidered or repeated if relapse is after at least 6 months 
after stopping therapy.
• A new triplet regimen should preferably include drugs or drug 
classes in patients who have not been exposed to, or not exposed to 
for at least 6 months.
• Clinical trials with these triplet regimens primarily included patients 
who were naïve or sensitive to the novel drug in the doublet 
comparator arm. Patients with disease refractory to the novel drug 
in the doublet backbone should be considered for triplet therapy that 
does not contain the drug they are progressing on.  
• Immunoglobulin replacement should be considered for patients 
with an IgG <400 mg/dLa or at a higher level for supportive care as 
clinically indicated. (See MYEL-J)
• Patients may be candidates for TCR Therapy. (See MYEL-G).
For HCT and Stem Cell Storage :
• Exposure to myelotoxic agents (including alkylating agents and 
nitrosoureas) should be limited to avoid compromising stem cell 
reserve prior to stem cell harvest in patients who may be candidates 
for HCT. 
• Consider harvesting autologous peripheral blood stem cells within 
the first 6 cycles of therapy initiation prior to prolonged exposure to 
lenalidomide and/or daratumumab in patients for whom HCT is being 
considered.
• If delayed HCT is considered, then autologous stem cells should be 
collected and stored. Dosing and Administration:
• An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any 
recommended systemic biologic therapy in the NCCN Guidelines. 
• Subcutaneous bortezomib is the preferred method of administration.
• Both weekly (preferred) and twice-weekly dosing schemas of 
bortezomib may be appropriate.
• Carfilzomib may be used weekly (preferred) or twice-weekly and at 
different doses. 
• For any regimen that includes daratumumab, this could be 
daratumumab for intravenous infusion or daratumumab and 
hyaluronidase-fihj for subcutaneous injection. Daratumumab and 
hyaluronidase-fihj for subcutaneous injection has different dosing 
and administration instructions compared to daratumumab for 
intravenous infusion.
• Steroids should be reduced to 20 mg weekly in patients who are 
older and should be decreased or discontinued with treatment 
response plateau and/or toxicity. 
Side Effects and Lab Interference :
• Daratumumab and isatuximab-irfc may interfere with serologic 
testing and cause false-positive indirect Coombs test.
• Type and screen should be performed before using daratumumab or 
isatuximab-irfc.
• Monoclonal antibodies can produce a false positive serum 
immunofixation if the monoclonal protein is IgG kappa and special 
interference testing or mass spectrometry based assessment can 
differentiate between the two.
• Carfilzomib can potentially cause cardiac, renal, and pulmonary 
toxicity, especially in patients who are older .
• Agents such as bendamustine can impact the ability to collect T 
cells for CAR T-cell therapy. See NCCN Guidelines for Management 
of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities.
a In assessing the need for gammaglobulin replacement in patients with IgG myeloma, it is important to take into the account the portion of IgG that is clonal. To estimate 
the normal IgG levels, subtract the M spike value from the IgG.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-G  
1 OF 5PRIMARY THERAPY FOR HCT CANDIDATESa-d
Preferred
• Daratumumab/Lenalidomide/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Isatuximab-irfc/Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
Other Recommended
• Bortezomib/Lenalido mide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Carfilzomib/Lenalidomid e/Dexamethasone
• Daratumumab/Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone
• Isatuximab-irfc/Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Bortezomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
• Carfilzomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasonee
• Daratumumab/Bortezomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
• Dexamethasone/Thalidomide/Cisplatin/Doxorubicin/Cyclophos phamide/Etoposide/
Bortezomibf (VTD-PACE)  
MAINTENANCE THERAPYg  
Preferred
• Lenalidomideh (category 1) 
Other Recommended
• Carfilzomib/Lenalidomideh
• Daratumumab/Lenalidomideh
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Bortezomib ± Lenalidomideh
• Daratumumab
• Ixazomib (category 2B)a Selected, but not inclusive of all regimens. The regimens under each preference category are listed by 
order of NCCN Category of Evidence and Consensus alphabetically.
b Supportive Care Treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-I) .
c See MYEL-F for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations (eg, Black/African 
American individuals).
d Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-L) .
e Treatment option for patients with renal insufficiency and/or peripheral neuropathy.
f Generally reserved for the treatment of aggressive MM.
g Two-drug maintenance recommended for high-risk MM.
h There appears to be an increased risk for secondary cancers, especially with lenalidomide maintenance 
following transplant. The benefits and risks of maintenance therapy versus secondary cancers should be 
discussed with patients.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-G  
2 OF 5a Selected, but not inclusive of all regimens. The regimens under each preference 
category are listed by order of NCCN Category of Evidence and Consensus 
alphabetically.
b Supportive Care Treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-I) .
c See MYEL-F for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations 
(eg, Black/African American individuals).d Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-L) .
e Treatment option for patients with renal insufficiency and/or peripheral 
neuropathy.
i Strongly consider collecting and storing stem cells for future HCT.
j Bortezomib or carfilzomib may be substituted with ixazomib in select patients in 
case of intolerance/logistical reasons.
k Treatment option for patients with renal insufficiency.PRIMARY THERAPY IF HCT-DEFERREDi OR IF HCT IS NOT INDICATEDa-d,j
In general, continue primary therapy until progression with de-escalation of therapy (modification of dose and duration) as needed.
Preferred
• Daratumumab/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Daratumumab/Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (for patients <80 years old who are not frail) (category 1)
• Isatuximab-irfc/Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (for patients <80 years old who are not frail) (category 1)
Other Recommended
• Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone
• Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)  
• Isatuximab-irfc/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone
Useful In Certain Circumstances
• Lenalidomide/Low-Dose Dexamethasone (category 1) 
• Bortezomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
• Bortezomib/Dexamethasone
• Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (VRD-lite) for patients 
assessed as being frail            • Carfilzomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasonee
• Daratumumab/Cyclophosphamide/Bortezomib/Dexamethasonek
• Isatuximab-irfc/Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 2B)
• Ixazomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone
• Lenalidomide/Cyclophosphamide/DexamethasonePLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-G  
3 OF 5a Selected, but not inclusive of all regimens. The regimens under each preference 
category are listed by order of NCCN Category of Evidence and Consensus 
alphabetically.b Supportive Care Treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-I) .c See MYEL-F for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations 
(eg, Black/African American individuals).d Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-L).l Regimens included under 1–3 prior therapies can also be used later in the 
disease course. Attempt should be made to use drugs/drug classes the patients 
have not been exposed to or exposed to >1 line prior.m Autologous HCT should be considered in patients who are eligible and have not 
previously received HCT or had a prolonged response to initial HCT. 
n In order to maximize benefit of systemic therapy, agents/regimens may be 
reconsidered or repeated if relapse is after at least 6 months of stopping therapy.
o Alkylating agents can impact the ability to collect T cells for CAR T-cell therapy. 
See NCCN Guideline for Management of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities .THERAPY FOR PREVIOUSLY TREATED MULTIPLE MYELOMAa-d,l-o
Relapsed/Refractory Disease After 1–3 Prior Therapies
Preferred*
Order of regimens does not indicate comparative efficacy
Anti-CD38 Refractory Bortezomib-Refractory Lenalidomide-Refractory
• Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone 
(category 1)
• Carfilzomib/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
• Pomalidomide/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone 
(category 1)
After two prior therapies including 
lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor (PI)
Elotuzumab/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
After two prior therapies including an IMiD 
and a PI and with disease progression on/
within 60 days of completion of last therapy
Ixazomib/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone• Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Daratumumab/Carfilzomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Daratumumab/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Isatuximab-irfc/Carfilzomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Carfilzomib/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
After one prior therapy including Lenalidomide and a PI
Daratumumab/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
After two prior therapies including Lenalidomide and a PI
Isatuximab-irfc/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
Elotuzumab/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone• Daratumumab/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Daratumumab/Carfilzomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Isatuximab-irfc/Carfilzomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Pomalidomide/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Carfilzomib/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
After one prior therapy including Lenalidomide and a PI
Daratumumab/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
After two prior therapies including Lenalidomide and a PI
Isatuximab-irfc/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
Elotuzumab/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
After two prior therapies including an IMiD and a PI and with 
disease progression on/within 60 days of completion of last 
therapy
Ixazomib/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
CAR T-Cell Therapy
After one prior line of therapy including IMiD and a PI, and refractory to lenalidomide
Ciltacabtagene autoleucel (category 1) 
After two prior lines of therapies including an IMiD, an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody and a PI
Idecabtagene vicleucel (category 1)
* For Other Recommended regimens and for regimens Useful in Certain Circumstances for Relapsed/Refractory Disease After 1–3 Prior Therapies, see MYEL-G 4 of 5PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-G  
4 OF 5a Selected, but not inclusive of all regimens. The regimens under each preference 
category are listed by order of NCCN Category of Evidence and Consensus 
alphabetically.
b Supportive Care Treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-I) .
c See MYEL-F for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations 
(eg, Black/African American individuals).
d Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-L) .
l Regimens included under 1–3 prior therapies can also be used later in the disease 
course. Attempt should be made to use drugs/drug classes the patients have not 
been exposed to or exposed to >1 line prior.m Autologous HCT should be considered in patients who are eligible and have not 
previously received HCT or had a prolonged response to initial HCT.
n In order to maximize benefit of systemic therapy, agents/regimens may be 
reconsidered or repeated if relapse is after at least 6 months of stopping therapy.
o Alkylating agents can impact the ability to collect T cells for CAR T-cell therapy. 
See NCCN Guideline for Management of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities .
p Consider single-agent lenalidomide or pomalidomide for patients with steroid 
intolerance.THERAPY FOR PREVIOUSLY TREATED MULTIPLE MYELOMAa-d,l-p
Relapsed/Refractory Disease After 1–3 Prior Therapies
Other Recommended
• Elotuzumab/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Ixazomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Selinexor/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Bortezomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
• Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone
• Carfilzomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
• Daratumumab/Cyclophosphamide/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone
• Daratumumab/Carfilzomib/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
• Elotuzumab/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone
• Ixazomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
• Lenalidomide/Cyclophosphamide/DexamethasoneAfter two prior therapies including an IMiD and a PI and disease 
progression on/within 60 days of completion of last therapy
Pomalidomide/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
Useful in Certain Circumstances 
• Bortezomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Bortezomib/Liposomal Doxorubicin/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Carfilzomib/Cyclophosphamide/Thalidomide/Dexamethasone
• Carfilzomib/Dexamethasone (category 1)
• Selinexor/Carfilzomib/Dexamethasone
• Selinexor/Daratumumab/Dexamethasone
• Venetoclax/Dexamethasone ± Daratumumab or PI only for t(11;14) 
patientsAfter two prior therapies including IMiD and a PI and with disease 
progression on/within 60 days of completion of last therapy
Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone (category 1)
Selinexor/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
For treatment of aggressive MM
Dexamethasone/Cyclophosphamide/Etoposide/Cisplatin (DCEP)
Dexamethasone/Thalidomide/Cisplatin/Doxorubicin/Cyclophosphamide/
Etoposide (DT-PACE) ± Bortezomib (VTD-PACE)
After at least three prior therapies including a PI and an IMiD or are 
double-refractory to a PI and an IMiD
DaratumumabPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-G  
5 OF 5a Selected, but not inclusive of all regimens. The regimens under each preference 
category are listed by order of NCCN Category of Evidence and Consensus 
alphabetically.
b Supportive Care Treatment for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-I) .
c See MYEL-F for considerations for myeloma therapy and for specific populations 
(eg, Black/African American individuals).
d Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-L) .
l Regimens included under 1–3 prior therapies can also be used later in the 
disease course. Attempt should be made to use drugs/drug classes the patients 
have not been exposed to or exposed to >1 line prior.m Autologous HCT should be considered in patients who are eligible and have not 
previously received HCT or had a prolonged response to initial HCT.
n In order to maximize benefit of systemic therapy, agents/regimens may be 
reconsidered or repeated if relapse is after at least 6 months of stopping therapy.
o Alkylating agents can impact the ability to collect T cells for CAR T-cell therapy. 
See NCCN Guideline for Management of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities . 
q Patients can receive more than one B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) targeted 
therapy. Optimal sequencing of sequential BCMA targeted therapies is not known; 
however accumulated data suggests immediate follow on with second BCMA 
directed therapy after relapse may be associated with lower response rates
r Prophylactic tocilizumab may be considered prior to first dose to reduce the risk of 
CRS.THERAPY FOR PREVIOUSLY TREATED MULTIPLE MYELOMAa-d,l-o
Relapsed/Refractory Disease After 3 Prior Lines of Therapy
 Preferredq
CAR T-cell Therapy: 
 ◊Ciltacabtagene autoleucel
 ◊Idecabtagene vicleucel
After at least four prior therapies, including an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, a PI, and an IMiD
Bispecific Antibodies (BsAb)r:
 ◊Elranatamab-bcmm
 ◊Linvoseltamab-gcpt
 ◊Talquetamab-tgvs
 ◊Teclistamab-cqyv
Other Recommended
• High-Dose or Fractionated Cyclophosphamide
After at least four prior therapies and whose disease is refractory to at least two PIs, at least two immunomodulatory agents, and 
an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody
• Selinexor/Dexamethasone
Useful in Certain Circumstancesq 
• Belantamab mafodotin-blmf (as available through expanded access program)
• Bendamustineo
• Bendamustine/Bortezomib/Dexamethasoneo
• Bendamustine/Carfilzomib/Dexamethasoneo
• Bendamustine/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasoneo
• Talquetamab + TeclistamabrPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma with CNS Disease
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MANAGEMENT OF CNS DISEASE IN PATIENTS WITH MM
MYEL-HGeneral 
• Multimodality therapy (radiation and systemic therapy) has been 
associated with improved outcomes.
• Incorporation of palliative care along with multimodal therapy is 
strongly recommended. 
Radiation Therapy (RT)
• RT can be part of multimodality therapy.
• Focal RT can be used to rapidly reverse or prevent progression of 
focal neurologic deficits resulting from localized disease within the 
brain, spine, or cranial nerves while awaiting further workup or if 
alternative therapies are not immediately available.
• Whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) can be considered for patients 
with poorly localized or cranial nerve disease.
Doses of WBRT ≤ 23.4 Gy in 13 fractions are associated with low 
toxicity.
Consider adding craniospinal irradiation (CSI) for patients with 
negative or otherwise well-controlled extra-CNS involvement.
 ◊If using CSI: conformal volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) 
or protons can spare bone marrow. 
 ◊CSI serves as an effective bridge to consolidation therapy like 
CAR T-cell therapy or autologous HCT.
Intrathecal (IT) Chemotherapy
• Consider as part of multimodality therapy.
• Concurrent IT Methotrexate and radiation can increase risk of 
myelopathy and should be given no less than 2 weeks apart.
Other concurrent combinations such as T-Cell Redirecting (TCR) 
therapies and systemic therapy are considered safe.
• Recommended IT regimens:
Thiotepa/Hydrocortisone
Methotrexate/Cytarabine/HydrocortisoneSystemic Chemotherapy
• Systemic chemotherapy can be considered in combination with 
immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) as part of multimodal therapy if there 
are no other alternatives.
• Limited data on efficacy supports the use of systemic chemotherapy 
(high-dose methotrexate, cytarabine, or bendamustine). 
Bendamustine and other alkylating agents can impact the ability 
to collect T cells for CAR T-cell therapy. See NCCN Guidelines for 
Management of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities.
Novel Agents
• Consider as part of multimodality therapy (with IT chemotherapy and 
RT).
IMiDs
 ◊Blood brain barrier penetration has been observed clinically with 
pomalidomide and lenalidomide.
 ◊Retrospective studies incorporating IMiDs have demonstrated 
improved outcomes.
Selinexor
 ◊Can penetrate blood brain barrier but has not been tested in 
management of CNS disease in patients with MM.
Venetoclax
 ◊Preclinical data supports blood brain barrier penetration.
 ◊Consider in t(11;14) if no other options are available.
Immunotherapy: CAR T-cell and BsAb Therapy
 ◊A history of treated CNS disease should not preclude use of CAR 
T-cell and BsAb therapy.
 ◊CAR T-cell and BsAb therapies may be useful as consolidative 
therapy to treat extra-CNS disease in patients receiving multi-
modality CNS-directed therapy, including RT.
 ◊In general, there is limited data available regarding the ability of 
current immunotherapies to penetrate the CNS.
Monoclonal antibody (mAbs) therapy
 ◊In general there is limited data of mAbs to penetrate blood brain 
barrier
 ◊Can use if systemic therapy required, but no clear data to support 
use in management of CNS disease in patients with myeloma.
• Proteasome inhibitors (PI)
Commercially available agents exhibit limited penetration of the 
blood brain barrier.
No clear signal for activity of PI in CNS disease.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-I a Both pamidronate and zoledronic acid have shown equivalence in terms of reducing risk of skeletal-related events in randomized trials.
b Denosumab is preferred in patients with renal insufficiency, caution for risk of hypocalcemia.
c This is based on observations with denosumab discontinuation in non-myeloma settings. Cummings SR, Ferrari S, Eastell R, et al. V ertebral fractures after 
discontinuation of denosumab: A post hoc analysis of the randomized placebo-controlled FREEDOM trial and its extension. J Bone Miner Res 2018;33:190-198.
d Increased risk of VTE has been reported in patients receiving erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs).SUPPORTIVE CARE FOR MULTIPLE MYELOMA
Hypercalcemia
• Hydration, bisphosphonates (zoledronic acid preferred), denosumab, 
steroids, and/or calcitonin are recommended.
Hyperviscosity
• Plasmapheresis should be used as adjunctive therapy for 
symptomatic hyperviscosity.
Anemia
• See NCCN Guidelines for Hematopoietic Growth Factors .
• Consider erythropoietin for anemic patients.d 
Infections
• See NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Cancer-Related 
Infections.
• See CDC for Use of COVID-19 Vaccines in the US. 
• For prophylaxis and management of infections in patients with 
multiple myeloma, see MYEL-J.
Renal Dysfunction
• See Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-L) . 
Venous Thromboembolism (VTE)  
• For management of VTE, risk stratification, and VTE prophylaxis, see 
MYEL-K.Bone Disease
• All patients receiving primary myeloma therapy should be given 
bone-targeting treatment (bisphosphonates [category 1]a or 
denosumabb).
A baseline dental exam is strongly recommended.
Assess vitamin D status.
Monitor for renal dysfunction with use of bisphosphonate 
therapy.
Monitor for osteonecrosis of the jaw. 
Continue bone-targeting treatment (bisphosphonates or 
denosumab) for up to 2 years. The frequency of dosing 
(monthly vs. every 3 months) would depend on the individual 
patient criteria, response to therapy, and agent used. 
Continuing beyond 2 years should be based on clinical 
judgment. 
Patients receiving denosumab for bone disease who 
subsequently discontinue therapy should be given 
maintenance denosumab every 6 months or a single dose of 
bisphosphonate to mitigate risk of rebound osteoporosis.c
• DEXA scans are not useful to assess myeloma bone disease. 
• For RT recommendations see Principles of Radiation Therapy 
(MYEL-D).
• Orthopedic consultation should be sought for impending or 
actual long-bone fractures or bony compression of spinal cord 
or vertebral column instability.
• Consider vertebroplasty or kyphoplasty for symptomatic 
vertebral compression fractures.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-J
1 OF 2MANAGEMENT OF INFECTIONS IN PATIENTS WITH MULTIPLE MYELOMA1
Continueda In assessing the need for gammaglobulin replacement in patients with IgG 
myeloma, it is important to take into the account the total portion of IgG that is 
derived from clonal plasma cells. To estimate the normal IgG levels, subtract the 
M spike value for the IgG. If IgG <400 mg/dL, is not polyclonal, than replacement 
can be considered.1 Mohan M, et al. Blood Adv. 2022;6:2466–2470.
2 Drayson MT, et al. Lancet Oncol 2019;20:1760-1772.Factors associated with increased infection risk in patients with MM
Common Bacterial Infections
Interventions & ProphylaxisIndication & Duration
CAR-T BsAb AutoHCT Other Indications
Levofloxacin: 500 mg PO daily
Alternatives: Cefdinir 300 mg PO twice a 
day or augmentin 875 mg PO twice a dayStart when ANC <500 or 
per clinician discretion and 
continue until neutrophil 
recovery.Start when ANC <500 or 
per clinician discretion and 
continue until neutrophil 
recovery.Newly diagnosed MM: 
Consider levofloxacin for 12 
weeks after diagnosis .2 
Immunoglobulin replacementAfter CAR T-cell therapy, 
regular IVIG infusions 
based on clinical context.Consider for the duration of 
BsAb therapyFor IgG <400 mg/dL and/
or recurrent life-threatening 
infections.a
Pneumococcal vaccinationRevaccination starting 3–6 
months after treatment.Update vaccination status 
prior to starting BsAb 
treatment.Revaccination starting 3-6 
months after treatment.The CDC recommends 1 
dose of PCV20 or 1 dose of 
PCV15 followed by 1 dose 
of PPSV23 at least 1 year 
later.Infection RiskIncreased General 
Infection RiskIncreased Bacterial 
Infection RiskIncreased Viral Infection 
RiskIncreased Fungal 
Infection Risk
Contributing Factors• Autologous HCT
• BsAb therapy 
• CAR T-cell therapy
• CD38 antibodies
• Cytotoxic chemotherapy• Diagnosis of MM
• BsAb therapy
• CAR T-cell therapy• Proteasome inhibitors 
• Monoclonal antibodies
• BsAb therapy
• CAR T-cell therapy• High-dose steroids
• Prolonged Neutropenia
• BsAb therapy
• CAR T-cell therapyFor additional recommendations on infection management, see NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Cancer-Related InfectionsPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-J
2 OF 2MANAGEMENT OF INFECTIONS IN PATIENTS WITH MULTIPLE MYELOMA1
b Patients receiving CAR T-cell and BsAb treatment, recipients of >1 dose of tocilizumab, use of second line agents such as anakinra or siltuximab for management 
of CRS and ICANS, prolonged and/or high-dose steroid use (requiring >3 days of 10 mg dexamethasone per day with a 7-day period or receiving higher doses of 
methylprednisolone >1 g per day) are at high risk of infection.
1 Mohan M, et al. Blood Adv 2022;6:2466–2470.Common Viral and Fungal Infections
Interventions & ProphylaxisIndication & Duration
CAR-TbBsAbbAutoHCT Other Indications
Herpes simplex virus or Varicella-zoster 
virus: Acyclovir 400–800 mg PO twice/day 
or valacyclovir 500 mg PO once or twice/
day. A minimum of 1 year; 
indefinite (preferred), 
irrespective of vaccination 
status.Indefinite, irrespective of 
vaccination statusFor 1 year post-HCT or as 
clinically indicated.While receiving a regimen with 
PIs or monoclonal antibody 
and for at least 3 months 
beyond end of therapy or per 
institutional practice.
Hepatitis B virus and HIV: Screening• HBsAg-positive
• HBsAg-negative
• HBcAb-IgG positive
• See NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of 
Cancer-Related Infections for HBV and HIV treatmentSee NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Cancer-
Related Infections for HBV and HIV treatment
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP): 
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) 
therapy or pentamidine or atovaquoneStart with therapy and continue for at least 6 months after the 
infusion or until CD4 ≥200/mm3 (whichever is longer).When equivalent dexamethasone dosing is >40 mg/day for 4 
days per week or as clinically indicated per institutional practice.
SARS-CoV-2: COVID-19 vaccinationSee The CDC's Staying Up to Date with COVID-19 Vaccines for specific guidance and see NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and 
Treatment of Cancer-Related Infections for treatment.
Influenza virus: Vaccination Per CDC for patients who are immunosuppressed. 
RSV: Bivalent vaccine• Single dose of bivalent vaccine for patients with MM aged ≥60 years.
• See CDC guidance for all other patient populations.
CMV: Prophylaxis• Monitor viral load (by PCR) only in patients with suspected CMV-related disease (eg, colitis, pneumonitis, hepatitis) or otherwise 
unexplained fever and/or cytopenias or in patients with high risk of infections.b 
• See NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Cancer-Related Infections  for treatment indication and treatment duration.
Adenovirus, EBV, JCV, parvovirus: No 
prophylaxisRoutine monitoring of viral load is not recommended. 
Yeast: Fluconazole 400 mg PO daily Start when ANC <500 or per clinician discretion and continue until neutrophil recovery.
Mold: Azole In patients with high risk of infectionsb: Consider ongoing prophylaxis with anti-mold azole.For additional recommendations on infection management, see NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Cancer-Related InfectionsPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-K
1 OF 3ContinuedMANAGEMENT OF VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM (VTE) IN MULTIPLE MYELOMA
1 Adapted with permission from Sanfilippo KM, et al. Am J Hematol 2019;94:1176-1184.
2 Adapted with permission from Li A, et al. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2019;17:840-847.IMPEDE Score1 for Risk Stratification (points assigned)
Individual Risk Factors Points Myeloma Risk Factors Points
Positive Factors
Central venous catheter/Tunneled central line +2 Immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) +4
Pelvic, hip, or femur fracture +4 Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent +1
Obesity (body mass index ≥25) +1 Dexamethasone  ≤160 mg/month +2
Previous VTE +5 Dexamethasone >160 mg/month +4
Doxorubicin or multiagent chemotherapy +3
Negative Factors
Ethnicity/Race = Asian/Pacific Islander -3
Existing thromboprophylaxis: prophylactic 
LMWH ( low-molecular-weight heparin)  or aspirin-3
Existing thromboprophylaxis: therapeutic 
LMWH or warfarin-4
SAVED Score2 for Risk Stratification
Variable Points
Surgery within 90 days +2
Asian race -3
VTE history +3
Age ≥80 years +1
Dexamethasone (regimen dose)
• Standard dose (120–160 mg/cycle)
• High dose (>160 mg/cycle)+1
+2VTE RISK STRATIFICATION USING IMPEDE OR SAVED SCORING SYSTEMPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-K
2 OF 3MANAGEMENT OF VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM (VTE) IN MULTIPLE MYELOMA
General Principles: 
• The highest risk for VTE is in the first 6 months following new diagnosis of MM.
• VTE prophylaxis is administered assuming there are no contraindications to anticoagulation agents or anti-platelets (see VTE-A within the NCCN 
Guidelines for Cancer-Associated Venous Thromboembolic Disease).
• All anticoagulants carry increased risk of bleeding; careful consideration needs to be made regarding risks and benefits for each patient.
• Warfarin at international normalized ratio (INR) 2–3 is not directly comparable to the other agents listed at prophylactic doses with respect to bleeding and 
thrombotic risks.
• Patients already on therapeutic anticoagulants for other reasons (eg, atrial fibrillation) should continue anticoagulation therapy .
• If no other coagulopathy, full-dose anticoagulation is contraindicated with thrombocytopenia <50,000/μL; in patients with high risk for VTE, prophylactic 
anticoagulation may be appropriate even if platelet count is as low as 25,000/μL.
• Indications for long-term anticoagulation include unprovoked VTE or provoked VTE in the presence of a risk factor that is still present.
• For any patients who develop VTE on IMiD-based therapy, continue using therapeutic dose anticoagulants for as long as IMiD-based therapy is indicated.
Factors Impacting the Choice of Optimal VTE Prophylaxis Agent:
• Bleeding risk (eg, concurrent coagulopathy, disseminated intravascular coagulation, hyperviscosity)
• Cytopenias (eg, platelet count ± hemoglobin)
• Concurrent medications (eg, strong cytochrome P inducers/inhibitors, single/dual anti-platelets)
• Current renal function (eg, creatinine clearance)
• Patient choice (eg, preference for mode of administration, dietary restrictions)
• Insurance coverage/restrictions (including cost of therapy)
• Availability of reversal agents in case of emergency bleeding
• History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia
• Extremes of body weight
• Carfilzomib + IMiD therapy
References
Carrier M, Abou-Nassar K, Mallick R, et al. Apixaban to Prevent Venous 
Thromboembolism in Patients with Cancer. N Engl J Med 2019;380:711-719.
Khorana AA, Soff GA, Kakkar AK, et al. Rivaroxaban for Thromboprophylaxis in 
High-Risk Ambulatory Patients with Cancer. N Engl J Med 2019;380:720-728. 
Kristinsson SY. Thrombosis in multiple myeloma. Hematology Am Soc Hematol 
Educ Program 2010;2010:437-444.
Palumbo A, Rajkumar SV, Dimopoulos MA, et al. Prevention of thalidomide- and 
lenalidomide-associated thrombosis in myeloma. Leukemia 2008;22:414-423. Piedra K, Peterson T, Tan C, et al. Comparison of venous thromboembolism 
incidence in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients receiving 
bortezomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone (RVD) or carfilzomib, lenalidomide, 
dexamethasone (KRD) with aspirin or rivaroxaban thromboprophylaxis. Br J 
Haematol 2022;196:105-109.
Wang TF, Zwicker JI, Ay C, et al. The use of direct oral anticoagulants for primary 
thromboprophylaxis in ambulatory cancer patients: Guidance from the SSC of the 
ISTH. J Thromb Haemost. 2019;17:1772-1778. Note: The AVERT apixaban trial 
had only 2.6% myeloma patients, and myeloma patients were excluded from the 
CASSINI rivaroxaban trial.
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MYEL-K
3 OF 3VTE Prophylaxis Recommendations
≤3 Points by IMPEDE Score or <2 Points by SAVED Score ≥4 Points by IMPEDE Score or ≥2 SAVED Scorea
• Aspirin 81–325 mg once daily  • LMWH (equivalent to enoxaparin 40 mg daily) OR
• Rivaroxaban 10 mg daily OR 
• Apixaban 2.5 mg twice daily OR 
• Fondaparinux 2.5 mg daily OR 
• Warfarin (target INR, 2.0–3.0)
Duration of VTE Prophylaxis
• Indefinite while on myeloma therapy
• 3–6 months followed by aspirin (longer periods of anticoagulation may be considered in the presence of additional patient, treatment-
specific, or transient VTE risk factors)
a A less common choice of agent includes dalteparin 5000 units subcutaneously (SC) daily (category 2B).RECOMMENDATIONS FOR VTE PROPHYLAXIS MANAGEMENT OF VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM (VTE) IN MULTIPLE MYELOMAPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MANAGEMENT OF RENAL DISEASE IN MULTIPLE MYELOMAa
Testsb
• Serum creatinine, electrolytes, and uric acid
• Urinalysis, electrolytes, and sediment
• 24-hour urine collection for protein and UPEP/UIFE
• SPEP/SIFE and serum FLCs
• Consider renal ultrasound and renal biopsy. 
Treatment Options
• Pulse dexamethasone
• Regimens containing bortezomib and/or daratumumab
• Can switch to other regimen once renal function has improved or 
stabilized
• See Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma (MYEL-E)
• See Myeloma Therapy (MYEL- G)
MYEL-La Defined as serum creatinine >2 mg/dL or established glomerular filtration rate 
(eGFR) <60 mL/min/1.73 sqm.
b Consider other diagnosis such as amyloid and light chain disease for 
patients with significant proteinuria. Dimopoulos MA, et al. Lancet Oncol 
2023;24:e293-e311.c Patients with creatinine clearance <30 cc/min can experience severe 
hypocalcemia and should be monitored.Recommendations for Lenalidomide Dosing in Patients with Multiple Myeloma who Have Renal Impairment
Category Renal Function (Cockcroft-Gault CrCL) Lenalidomide Dosing in Multiple Myeloma
Moderate renal impairment CrCL  ≥30 mL/min to <60 mL/min 10 mg every 24 h
Severe renal impairment CrCL <30 mL/min (not requiring dialysis) 15 mg every 48 h
End-stage renal disease CrCL<30 mL/min (requiring dialysis) 5 mg once daily; on dialysis days, 
dose should be administered after dialysis
Bone-Modifying Agent Dosing in Patients with Multiple Myeloma Who Have Renal Impairment
Degree of Renal Impairment Pamidronate 
(focal segmental glomerulosclerosis)Zoledronic Acid 
(tubular cell toxicity)Denosumab
None 90 mg IV every 3–4 wks 4 mg IV every 1–3 mo 120 mg SQ Q 4 wks
Mild/moderate renal impairment Use standard dose Reduce dose 120 mg SQ Q 4 wks
Severe renal impairment 60–90 mg Not recommended 120 mg SQ Q 4 wkscSupportive Care
• Provide hydration to dilute tubular light chains; goal urine output 
is 100–150 cc/h
• Monitor fluid status
• Treat hypercalcemia, hyperuricemia, and other metabolic 
abnormalities
• Discontinue nephrotoxic medications
• Dialysis
Refractory electrolyte disturbances, uremia, and fluid overload
• Mechanical removal of serum FLCs with high cutoff dialysis 
filters or plasmapheresis may have a limited role. Systemic 
therapy should not be delayed if performing this procedure.
• Renal dosing of all medicationsPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MGRS-1MONOCLONAL GAMMOPATHY OF RENAL SIGNIFICANCE
CLINICAL 
FINDINGSINITIAL WORKUP ADDITIONAL WORKUP
Monoclonal 
gammopathy 
of renal 
significance 
(MGRS) 
suspectedEvaluate for kidney disease
• Kidney function: 
established GFR (eGFR)
• Urinalysis
• 24-h urine for total 
protein, UPEP, and UIFE
• Metabolic panelTo confirm diagnosis of MGRS:
• Light microscopy
• Immunofluorescence staining for 
IgG subclasses, IgA and IgM, and 
kappa and lambda
 Note: M protein detected in  
 serum and/or urine must   
 match the one found in the   
 renal biopsy 
• Electron microscopy
• FDG-PET/CT, low-dose CT, or 
whole-body MRI without contrast as 
clinically indicated
• Bone marrow biopsy if 
suspected to have MM or 
Waldenström macroglobulinemia/
lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (WM/
LPL)
Additional workup as clinically 
indicated:
• FISH panel for myeloma and 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
assay for MYD88 L265P
• Excisional lymph node biopsy, 
if other B-cell lymphomas are 
suspected
• Peripheral blood flow cytometry for 
diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia (See NCCN Guidelines for 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/
Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma)
• Evaluate for light chain amyloidosis 
(See NCCN Guidelines for Systemic 
Light Chain Amyloidosis)For 
management, 
see MGRS-2Renal biopsy 
recommended if:
• Acute kidney injury 
(AKI) stage 3
• eGFR <60 mL/min and 
>2 mL/min per year 
decline
• Proteinuria (>1 g/day) 
Albumin:creatinine >30 
mg/mmol
• Fanconi syndrome
Consider renal biopsy if:
• AKI stage 1 or 2
• eGFR <60 mL/min and 
<2 mL/min per year 
decline
• Albumin:creatinine 
3–30 mg/mmol and 
glomerular filtration rate 
(GFR) <60 mL/min
• Evidence of light chain 
proteinuria
Defer renal biopsy if:
• Stable eGFR
• Normal urinalysis
• No evidence of light 
chain proteinuriaPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
TREATMENT RESPONSE ASSESSMENT
• For plasma cell-related MGRS, use the 
management algorithm for MM (MYEL-4)
• For lymphoplasmacytic-related MGRS, 
see NCCN Guidelines for Waldenström 
Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic 
Lymphomaa
• For any MGRS with monoclonal B-cell 
lymphocytosis (MBL) features, see NCCN 
Guidelines for Chronic Lymphocytic 
Leukemia/Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma• For IgG- or IgA-associated MGRS, use the 
Response Criteria for MM (MYEL-E)
• For IgM-associated MGRS, use 
the response criteria for WM (See 
NCCN Guidelines for Waldenström 
Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic 
Lymphoma)
• For FLC-associated MGRS, use the 
response criteria for amyloidosis (See 
NCCN Guidelines for Systemic Light Chain 
Amyloidosis)
• For cases in which the causal monoclonal 
paraprotein is not detectable or is difficult 
to measure:
evaluate renal function
evaluate bone marrow involvement or 
radiologic findingsRelapseIndividualize 
treatment based on 
response and toxicity 
of prior therapy, 
patient’s performance 
status, and renal 
function at the time 
of relapse
MGRS-2a Systemic agents associated with neurotoxicity should be used with caution.MONOCLONAL GAMMOPATHY OF RENAL SIGNIFICANCEPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MONOCLONAL IMMUNOGLOBULIN DEPOSITION DISEASE
MIDD-1a Organ involvement by frequency: kidney (~96%), heart (~21%), liver (~19%), peripheral nervous system (~8%). WORKUP TREATMENT CLINICAL 
FINDINGS
Monoclonal 
Immunoglobulin 
Deposition Diseases 
(MIDD)
• Light chain 
deposition disease 
(LCDD) ~80% (of 
which 80%–90% are 
Kappa LC)
• Heavy chain 
deposition disease 
(HCDD) ~10%
• Light and heavy 
chain deposition 
disease (LHCDD) 
~10% Tests outlined on MYEL-1 to 
identify the plasma cell abnormality, 
if not previously done
Evaluate for kidney or other organ 
damage
• For evaluating kidney damage, 
see MGRS-1
• For evaluating other organ 
damage, see NCCN Guidelines for 
Systemic Light Chain Amyloidosis
Additional Evaluation as Clinically 
Indicated
• PCR assay for MYD88 L265P
• Excisional lymph node biopsy, 
if other B-cell lymphomas are 
suspected
• Peripheral blood flow cytometry 
for diagnosis of CLL/SLL or 
LPL (see NCCN Guidelines for 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/
Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma 
and NCCN Guidelines for 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma)Treat if evidence of organ 
damage by underlying 
pathogenic clone:
• For plasma cell-related 
MIDD, see MM (MYEL-4 
and MYEL-G)
• For lymphoplasmacytic-
related MIDD, see 
NCCN Guidelines 
for Waldenström 
Macroglobulinemia/
Lymphoplasmacytic 
Lymphoma
• For MIDD with 
monoclonal B-cell 
lymphocytosis features, 
see NCCN Guidelines 
for Chronic Lymphocytic 
Leukemia/Small 
Lymphocytic LymphomaTRANSPLANT 
CONSIDERATIONS
Single 
or multi-
organ 
damagea• Autologous HCT 
consolidation 
preferable in eligible 
patients (by clone 
subtype)
• If patient has deep 
and sustained clonal 
response after 
induction therapy (with 
or without autologous 
HCT consolidation)
Consider solid organ 
transplant to treat the 
affected organ/s in 
eligible patients
Candidacy for solid 
organ transplant is 
acceptable without 
consolidative 
autologous HCT if 
patients attained deep 
and durable responsePLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MONOCLONAL GAMMOPATHY OF NEUROLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE 
MGNS-1IgMa MGNS 
(Monoclonal 
gammopathy 
of neurological 
significance) 
suspectedINITIAL WORKUP CLINICAL FINDINGS
• Rule out other causes of neuropathy
Diabetes
Cobalamin deficiency
Thyroid dysfunction
Lyme disease
HIV infection
Syphilis
Autoimmune disease
Cryoglobulinemia
Evaluate for the following as appropriate: 
 ◊Light chain amyloidosis (See NCCN 
Guidelines for Systemic Light Chain 
Amyloidosis)
 ◊WM (See NCCN Guidelines for WM/LPL )
 ◊POEMS (POEMS-1)
• Anti-MAG antibodiesa
• Ganglioside antibody panel
• Nerve conduction study (NCS)/
electromyogram (EMG)a
• Neurology consult
• MYD88b L265P allele-specific PCR (AS-PCR) 
testing of bone marrow
• Chest/abdomen/pelvis CT with contrast 
when possible
Useful in certain circumstances
• Sural nerve biopsy
• CXCR4  gene mutation testingHigh suspicion
• Sensory predominant
• Length dependent
• Slow progression (years)
• Bilateral and symmetrical
• Antibodies present
• Demyelination by EMG/NCS 
OR intermediate suspicion (not 
high or low suspicion) AND 
affecting activities of daily 
living (ADLs)
Low suspicion
• Motor/pain predominant
• Non-length dependent
• Rapid progression (weeks to 
months)
• Unilateral/asymmetrical
• Antibodies not present
• No demyelination by EMG/NCS 
OR intermediate/high suspicion 
AND not affecting ADLsSee NCCN 
Guidelines for 
Waldenström 
Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic 
Lymphoma
OR
Observation
a In patients presenting with suspected disease related to peripheral/axonal neuropathy, rule out amyloidosis in patients presenting with nephrotic syndrome or 
unexplained cardiac problems.
b MYD88 wild-type occurs in <10% of patients and should not be used to exclude diagnosis of WM if other criteria are met.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
INITIAL WORKUP ADDITIONAL TESTING 
AS INDICATED
POEMS 
suspected• Complete H&P 
examination
• Evaluate for 
organomegaly
• Fundoscopic exam
• Hyperhidrosis
• Diarrhea
• Weight loss
• Menstrual and sexual 
function
• Skin examination for 
hyperpigmentation, 
hypertrichosis, 
acrocyanosis, 
glomeruloid 
hemangiomata, plethora, 
flushing, clubbing, etc
• Detailed neurologic 
history (numbness, pain, 
weakness, balance, 
orthostasis) and exam 
(sensation and motor 
function)• Electrophysiologic (nerve 
conduction) studies
• CT chest/abdomen/pelvis to 
document lymphadenopathy, 
organomegaly, ascites, pleural 
effusion, edema
• Testosterone, estradiol, fasting 
glucose, thyroid-stimulating 
hormone, parathyroid hormone, 
prolactin, serum cortisol, 
luteinizing hormone
• CBC, complete metabolic panel, 
serum immunoglobulins (IgG, 
IgA, IgM), electrophoresis and 
immunofixation, serum FLC, 24-h 
urine for total protein, UPEP, and 
UIFE, vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF), and interleukin 6 
(IL-6)
Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy 
with FISH panel for myeloma
• Echocardiography to assess right 
ventricular systolic and pulmonary 
artery pressures
• CT body bone windows and or 
FDG-PET/CT for sclerotic bone 
lesions• For criteria for 
diagnosis, see 
POEMS-3
• Sural nerve biopsy
• Follicle-stimulating 
hormone, 
adrenocorticotropin 
hormone, 
cosyntropin 
stimulation test
• Biopsy of bone lesion 
if needed
• Excisional lymph 
node biopsy, if 
Castleman disease 
or other B-cell 
lymphomas are 
suspected 
• FISH panel for 
myeloma
• Evaluate for light 
chain amyloidosis, 
if appropriate (see 
NCCN Guidelines for 
Systemic Light Chain 
Amyloidosis)For management of 
POEMS syndrome, 
see POEMS-2
If diagnosis is MM, 
follow MM algorithm
If diagnosis is WM, 
see NCCN Guidelines 
for WM/LPL
If diagnosis is 
Castleman disease, 
see NCCN Guidelines 
for Castleman 
Disease
If diagnosis is 
Systemic Light Chain 
Amyloidosis, see 
NCCN Guidelines for 
Systemic Light Chain 
AmyloidosisPOLYNEUROPATHY, ORGANOMEGALY, ENDOCRINOPATHY, MONOCLONAL PROTEIN, SKIN CHANGES (POEMS)
Adapted with permission: Dispenzieri A. Am J Hematol 2019;94:812-827.RECOMMENDED INITIAL TESTING DIAGNOSIS
POEMS-1PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
POLYNEUROPATHY, ORGANOMEGALY, ENDOCRINOPATHY, MONOCLONAL PROTEIN, SKIN CHANGES (POEMS)
POEMS-2TREATMENT RESPONSE ASSESSMENT
• RT alone to isolated bone lesion (<3 sites) 
in patients without clonal BMPC
• Autologous HCT in patients who are 
eligible as sole therapy or as consolidation 
after induction therapy
Induction therapy options include:
 ◊Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone ± 
Daratumumab
 ◊Bortezomiba,b/Dexamethasone
 ◊Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
 ◊Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone
• In patients who are not candidates for HCT, 
options include:
All regimen listed above
Melphalan/Dexamethasone
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Myeloma systemic therapy options can be 
used in certain circumstances (MYEL-G)See POEMS-4 for Response CriteriaIndividualize treatment based 
on response and toxicity of 
prior therapy and patient’s 
performance status at the 
time of progressionProgression
a Bortezomib may cause exacerbation of neuropathy.
b Bortezomib may be replaced with carfilzomib in select patients.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
POLYNEUROPATHY, ORGANOMEGALY, ENDOCRINOPATHY, MONOCLONAL PROTEIN, SKIN CHANGES (POEMS)
Table 1. Criteria for the Diagnosis of POEMS syndromea
Mandatory major criteria1. Polyneuropathy (typical demyelinating)
2. Monoclonal plasma cell-proliferative disorder (almost always λ)
Other major criteria 
(one required)3. Castleman diseaseb
4. Sclerotic bone lesions
5. Vascular endothelial growth factor elevation
Minor criteria6. Organomegaly (splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, lymphadenopathy)
7. Extravascular volume overload (edema, pleural effusion, or ascites)
8. Endocrinopathy (adrenal, thyroid, pituitary, gonadal, parathyroid, pancreatic)
9. Skin changes (hyperpigmentation, hypertrichosis, glomeruloid hemangiomata, plethora, acrocyanosis, flushing, white 
nails)
10. Papilledema
11. Thrombocytosis/polycythemiac
Other signs and 
symptomsClubbing, weight loss, hyperhidrosis, pulmonary hypertension, restrictive lung disease, thrombotic diatheses, diarrhea, low 
vitamin B12 levels
a There is a Castleman disease variant of POEMS that occurs without evidence of a clonal plasma cell disorder that is not accounted for in this table. This entity should 
be considered separately. 
b Because of the high prevalence of diabetes mellitus and thyroid abnormalities, this diagnosis alone is not sufficient to meet this minor criterion.
c Approximately 50% of patients will have bone marrow changes that distinguish it from a typical MGUS or myeloma bone marrow. Anemia and/or thrombocytopenia are 
distinctively unusual in this syndrome unless Castleman disease is present.Reprinted with permission: Dispenzieri A. Am J Hematol 2019;94:812-827.
The diagnosis of POEMS syndrome is confirmed when both  of the mandatory major criteria, one of the other three major criteria, and one of 
the six minor criteria are present. 
POEMS-3PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
POLYNEUROPATHY, ORGANOMEGALY, ENDOCRINOPATHY, MONOCLONAL PROTEIN, SKIN CHANGES (POEMS)
Table 2. Response Criteria for POEMS Syndrome
Parameter Evaluable Complete Response Improvement Progressiona
Plasma VEGF 2x ULN Normalb50% reduction from 
baselineb50% increase from lowest level
Hematologic M-spike 0.5 g/dL,c 
1.0 g/dLd,eNegative serum and urine 
IFE and bone marrowb50% reduction of M-spike 
from baselinef25% increase from lowest level, 
which must be >0.5 g/dL
PET/CT At least one lesion with 
FDG SUVmaxgNo FDG uptake 50% reduction in sum of 
SUVmaxg30% increase in sum of SUVmaxg 
from lowest level which must 
be at least 4 SUVmaxg OR 
appearance of new FDG avid 
lesion
mNIS +7POEMSAll patients ... 15% decrease from 
baseline (a minimum of 10 
points)15% increase from lowest value 
(a minimum of 10 points)
Ascites/effusion/edema Present Absent Improved by 1 CTCAE 
grade from baselineWorsened by 1 CTCAE grade 
from lowest grade
ECHO RVSP ≥40 mm Hg ... <40 mm Hg
Papilledema Present Absent Worsening by 1 CTCAE grade 
DLCO <70% predicted ≥70% predicted ... Worsening by 1 CTCAE grade
Reprinted with permission: Dispenzieri A. Am J Hematol 2019;94:812-827.Abbreviations: CTCAE, common terminology criteria for adverse events, IFE, immunofixation electrophoresis, ECHO R VSP, echocardiogram right ventricular systolic pressure, DLCO, diffusing 
capacity of carbon monoxide.
a Any progression event (VEGF, hematologic, or clinical will be considered 
progression, assuming change is attributable to disease and not an adverse 
event). To document progression, option exists for repeating value. If confirmed, 
progression date is first date of suspected progression.
b For VEGF, M-spike, and IFE response documentation, blood values need to be 
repeated for verification.c For VGPR evaluable.
d For PR evaluable. 
e Quantitative IgA is acceptable surrogate for M-spike for proteins migrating in the 
beta region.
f VGPR is defined as no measurable monoclonal protein on serum or urine 
electrophoresis, but positive IFE.
g By body weight.
POEMS-4PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
ADL activities of daily living
AKI acute kidney injury
ANC absolute neutrophil count
AS-PCR allele-specific polymerase chain 
reaction
BCMA B-cell maturation antigen
BMPC bone marrow plasma cell
BNP b-type natriuretic peptide
BUN blood urea nitrogen
BsAb bispecific antibody
CAR chimeric antigen receptor
CBC complete blood count
CLL chronic lymphocytic leukemia
CMV cytomegalovirus
CNS central nervous system
CrCl creatinine clearance
CRS cytokine release syndromes
CSF cerebrospinal fluid
CSI craniospinal irradiation
CTCAE common terminology criteria for 
adverse events
CTV clinical target volumeDLCOdiffusing capacity of the lung for 
carbon monoxide
EBV Epstein-Barr virus
ECHO echocardiogram
eGFR estimated glomerular filtration rate
EMG electromyogram
ESA erythropoiesis-stimulating agent
FCM flow cytometry
FDG fluorodeoxyglucose
FISH fluorescence in situ hybridization
FLC free light chain
FLCr serum free light chain ratio
GFR glomerular filtration rate
GTV gross tumor volume
H&P history and physical
HBcAb hepatitis B core antibody
HBsAg hepatitis B surface antigen
HCDD heavy chain deposition disease
HCT hematopoietic cell transplant
HIV human immunodeficiency virusABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-1ICANS immune effector cell-associated 
neurotoxicity syndrome
IFE immunofixation electrophoresis
Ig immunoglobulin
IgG immunoglobulin G
IHC immunohistochemistry
IL-6 interleukin-6
IMiD immunomodulatory drug
IMPEDE IMiD, BMI, Pathologic fracture, ESA 
(erythropoietin stimulating agent), 
Dexamethasone/Doxorubicin, 
Ethnicity
IMRT intensity-modulated radiation therapy
IMS International Myeloma Society
IMWG International Myeloma Working Group
INR international normalized ratio
ISS International Staging System
ISRT involved-site radiation therapy
IT intrathecal
IVIG itravenous immunoglobulin
JCV John Cunningham virusPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
TCR T-cell redirecting therapy
UIFE urine immunofixation electrophoresis
ULN upper limit of normal
UPEP urine protein electrophoresis
VEGF vascular endothelial growth factor
VGPR very good partial response
VMAT volumetric modulated arc therapy
VTE venous thromboembolism
WBRT whole brain radiation therapy
WM/LPL Waldenström macroglobulinemia/
lymphoplasmacytic lymphomaABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-2LCDD light chain deposition disease
LDH lactate dehydrogenase
LHCDD light and heavy chain deposition 
disease
LMWH low-molecular-weight heparin
LP lumbar puncture
mAb monoclonal antibody
MBL monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis
MFC multicolor flow cytometry
MGNS monoclonal gammopathy of 
neurological significance
MGRS monoclonal gammopathy of renal 
significance
MGUS monoclonal gammopathy of 
undetermined significance
MIDD monoclonal immunoglobulin 
deposition disease
MM multiple myeloma
MRD minimal residual disease
NCS nerve conduction study
NGF next-generation flow
NGS next-generation sequencing
NT-
proBNPN-terminal prohormone B-type 
natriuretic peptide
OAR organs at risk
OS overall survivalPCR polymerase chain reaction
PCV pneumococcal conjugate vaccine
PI proteasome inhibitor
PJP pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia
POEMS polyneuropathy, organomegaly, 
endocrinopathy, monoclonal protein, 
skin changes
PR partial response
PTV planning target volume
R-ISS Revised International Staging System
RSV respiratory syncytial virus
RSVP right ventricular systolic pressure
SARS-
CoV-2severe acute respiratory syndrome 
coronavirus 2
SAVED Surgery within 90 days, Asian race, 
Venous thromboembolism history, age 
over Eighty (80), dexamethasone
SIFE serum immunofixation electrophoresis
SLL small lymphocytic lymphoma
SNP single nucleotide polymorphism
SPD sum of product of greatest 
perpendicular diameters
SPEP serum protein electrophoresis
SUV standardized uptake valuePLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2026
Multiple Myeloma
Version 2.2026, 07/16/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CAT-1NCCN Categories of Evidence and Consensus
Category 1 Based upon high-level evidence (≥1 randomized phase 3 trials or high-quality , robust meta-analyses), there is 
uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 2A Based upon lower-level evidence, there is uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 2B Based upon lower-level evidence, there is NCCN consensus (≥50%, but <85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 3 Based upon any level of evidence, there is major NCCN disagreement that the intervention is appropriate. 
All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
NCCN Categories of Preference
PreferredInterventions that are based on superior efficacy, safety, and evidence; and, when appropriate, 
affordability.
Other recommendedOther interventions that may be somewhat less efficacious, more toxic, or based on less mature data; 
or significantly less affordable for similar outcomes.
Useful in certain 
circumstancesOther interventions that may be used for selected patient populations (defined with recommendation).
All recommendations are considered appropriate.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-1 Discussion  
 
Table of Contents  
Overview  ................................ ................................ .........................  MS-2 
Guidelines Update Methodology  ................................ ......................  MS-2 
Literature Search Criteria................................ ................................ . MS-2 
Sensitive/Inclusive Language  ................................ ..........................  MS-2 
Diagnosis and Workup  ................................ ................................ .... MS-2 
Solitary Plasmacytoma  ................................ ................................ .... MS-6 
The response to RT should be assessed after at least 3 months of 
completion of RT.  ................................ ................................ .........  MS-8 
Surveillance/Follow -up Tests for Solitary Plasmacytoma  ..............  MS-8 
Smoldering (Asymptomatic) Myeloma  ................................ ..............  MS-8 
Primary Therapy for Smoldering (Asymptomatic) Myeloma  ...........  MS-8 
Surveillance/Follow -up Tests for Smoldering (Asymptomatic) Myeloma
 ................................ ................................ ................................ .... MS-9 
Active (Symptomatic) Multiple Myeloma  ................................ ...........  MS-9 
Primary Therapy for Active (Symptomatic) Multiple Myeloma  ...... MS-10 
Monitoring After Primary Myeloma Therapy of Both Transplant and 
Non-Transplant Candidates  ................................ ........................  MS-21 
Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation  ................................ ............  MS-22 Follow -Up After Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation ..................  MS-26 
Maintenance Therapy  ................................ ................................  MS-26 
Therapy for Previously Treated Multiple Myeloma  ......................  MS-30 
Supportive Care for Multiple Myeloma  ................................ ...........  MS-45 
Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma ......................  MS-47 
Monoclonal Gammopathy of Renal Significance (MGRS)  ...........  MS-49 
Initial Workup  ................................ ................................ ............  MS-49 
Treatment  ................................ ................................ .................  MS-49 
POEMS Syndrome  ................................ ................................ ....... MS-51 
Initial Workup  ................................ ................................ ............  MS-51 
Treatment  ................................ ................................ .................  MS-52 
References  ................................ ................................ ...................  MS-51 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for 
Multiple Myeloma. Last updated: 10/31/2023  
 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-2 Overview 
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a malignant neoplasm of plasma cells that 
accumulate in bone marrow, leading to bone destruction and marrow 
failure. MM is most frequently diagnosed among people aged 65 to 74 
years, with the median age being 69 years.1 The American Cancer Society 
has estimated 35,730 new MM cases  and an estimated 12,590 deaths  in 
the United States in 2023.2 
Guidelines Update Methodology  
The complete details of the development and update of the NCCN 
Guidelines are available at  www.NCCN.org .  
Literature Search Criteria  
Prior to the annual update of the NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma, 
an electronic search of the PubMed database was performed to obtain key 
literature published since the previous update, using the following search 
terms: Smoldering Multiple Myeloma, Solitary Plasmacytoma, Multiple 
Myeloma, Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance, and POEMS syndrome. The PubMed database was chosen because it 
remains the most widely used resource for medical literature and indexes peer-reviewed biomedical literature. 
The search results were narrowed by selecting studies in humans published in English. Results were confined to the following article types: 
Clinical Trial, Phase II; Clinical Trial, Phase III; Clinical Trial, Phase IV; Guideline; Practice Guideline; Randomized Controlled Trial; Meta-Analysis; Systematic Reviews; and Validation Studies. The data from key PubMed articles as well as articles from additional sources deemed as 
relevant to these guidelines as discussed by the panel have been included 
in this vers ion of the Discussion section. Recommendations for which 
high- level evidence is lacking are based on the panel’s review of lower -
level evidence and expert opinion. Sensitive/Inclusive Language  
NCCN Guidelines strive to use language that advances the goals of 
equity, inclusion, and representation. NCCN Guidelines endeavor to use 
language that is person- first; not stigmatizing; anti -racist, anti -classist, anti -
misogynist, anti -ageist, anti -ableist , and anti -weight -biased; and inclusive 
of individuals of all sexual orientations and gender identities. NCCN 
Guidelines incorporate non- gendered language, focusing on organ-
specific recommendations. This language is accurate and inclusive and 
can help fully address the needs of individuals of all sexual orientations and gender identities. NCCN Guidelines will continue to use the terms men, women, female, and male when citing statistics, recommendations, 
or data from organizations or sources that do not use inclusive terms. 
Most studies do not report how sex and gender data are collected and use 
these terms interchangeably or inconsistently. If sources do not differentiate gender from sex assigned at birth or organs present, the 
information is presumed to predominantly represent cisgender individuals. 
NCCN encourages researchers to collect more specific data in future studies and organizations to use more inclusive and accurate language in 
their future analyses.    
Diagnosis and Workup 
It is important to distinguish MM from other plasma cell 
neoplasms/dyscrasias to determine prognosis and provide appropriate 
treatment.  
The initial diagnostic workup in all patients should include a history and 
physical examination. To differentiate symptomatic and asymptomatic MM 
the following baseline laboratory studies are needed: a complete blood 
count (CBC) with differential; examination of peripheral blood smear; blood 
urea nitrogen (BUN); serum creatinine; creatinine clearance (calculated or 
measured directly) and serum electrolytes; liver function tests ; serum PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-3 calcium; serum uric acid; albumin; lactate dehydrogenase (LDH); and 
beta- 2 microglobulin.  
Peripheral smear may show abnormal distribution of red blood cells  
(RBCs)  such as the Rouleaux formation (red cells taking on the 
appearance of a stack of coins) due to elevated serum proteins.3 
Increased BUN and creatinine indicate decreased kidney function, 
whereas LDH and beta -2 microglobulin levels reflect tumor cell 
characteristics. NT -proBNP is also recommended, and if N- terminal 
prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide N- terminal prohormone of brain 
natriuretic peptide (NT -proBNP ) is not available BNP can be performed.  
Serum and Urine Analysis : Serum analysis includes quantitative 
immunoglobulin levels (IgG, IgA, and IgM); serum protein electrophoresis 
(SPEP) for quantitation of  M protein; and serum immunofixation 
electrophoresis (SIFE) to obtain more specific information about the type of M protein present. Assessing changes in levels of various proteins, 
particularly the M  protein, helps track disease progression and response to 
treatment. Urine analysis as a part of the initial diagnostic workup includes 
evaluating 24- hour urine for total protein, urine protein electrophoresis 
(UPEP), and urine immunofixation electrophoresis (UIFE).  
Free Light  Chain Assay : The serum free light chain ( FLC) assay along with 
serum M protein analyses (SPEP and SIFE) yield high sensitivity while 
screening for MM and related plasma cell disorders.
4-6 It is also helpful in 
prognostication of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance 
(MGUS), smoldering myeloma, active MM, immunoglobulin light chain 
amyloidosis, and solitary plasmacytoma.6,7 The serum FLC assay also 
allows for quantitative monitoring of patients with light chain amyloidosis and light chain myeloma. In addition to all of the above, the FLC ratio 
(FLCr) is required for documenting stringent complete response (sCR) 
according to t he International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform 
Response Criteria.
8 The serum FLC assay cannot replace the 24- hour UPEP for monitoring patients with measurable urinary M  protein and can 
also be affected by renal function Once individuals are found to have an M 
protein, light chain abnormalities, or both, the same studies should be 
used serially. Patients with a negative UPEP do not need this study 
repeated, except to confirm remission or if the clinical situation changes.  
Bone Marrow Evaluation : The percentage of clonal bone marrow plasma 
cells ( BMPCs; ≥10%) is a major criterion for the diagnosis of MM. The 
percentage of plasma cells in bone marrow is estimated by unilateral bone 
marrow aspiration and biopsy. Immunohistochemistry and/or flow 
cytometry can be used to confirm presence of monoclonal plasma cells, 
and to more accurately quantify plasma cell involvement.9 The cytoplasm 
of abnormal plasma cells contains either kappa or lambda light chains, 
and predominance of one or the other light chain expressing plasma cells 
indicates clonality. Specific immunophenotypic profiles of the myeloma 
cells may have prognostic implications.10 
Cytogenetic Studies:  A lthough MM may be morphologically similar, 
several subtypes of the disease have been identified at the genetic and molecular level s. Bone marrow studies at initial diagnosis should include 
chromosome analysis by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) performed on the plasma cells obtained from bone marrow aspiration. 
Metaphase cytogenetics is not recommended unless myelodysplasia is 
suspected . Specific chromosomal abnormalities have been identified in 
patients with MM involving translocations, deletions, or amplifications.  
According to the NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel members, the FISH panel 
for prognostic estimation of plasma cells should be examined for del (13), 
del(17p13) , t(4;14), t(11;14), t(14;16), t(14:20), 1q21 gain/amplification, 
and 1p deletion. The utility of this information is to determine biological 
subtype and for prognostic recommendations as well as candidacy for 
clinical trials.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-4 Deletion of 17p13 (the locus for the tumor -suppressor gene, p53 ) leads to 
loss of heterozygosity of TP53 and is considered a high- risk feature in 
MM.11-13  
Several studies have confirmed that MM patients with t(4;14), t(14;16), 
and t(14;20) have a poor prognosis, while t(11;14) is believed to impart 
less risk.14-17  
Abnormalities of chromosome 1 are also among the frequent 
chromosomal alterations in MM.18 The short arm is most often associated 
with deletions and the long arm with amplifications.19 Gains/amplification 
of 1q21 increases the risk of MM progression and incidence of the 
amplification is higher in relapsed than in newly diagnosed patients.18,20 
Risk stratification based on the chromosomal markers is being utilized for 
prognostic counseling, selection, and sequencing of therapy.21-23 
Imaging: A skeletal survey has been the standard for decades for 
assessing bone disease for any individual with suspected MM.24 However, 
this technique has significant limitations related to lower sensitivity compared to advanced imaging.  CT alone or in combination with FDG -
PET has been shown to be significantly superior regarding the sensitivity 
to detect osteolytic lesions in patients with monoclonal plasma cell 
disorders. A multicenter analysis by the IMWG compared conventional 
skeletal survey with whole- body CT scans from 212 patients with 
monoclonal plasma cell disorders. Whole- body CT was positive in 25.5% 
of patients with negative skeletal survey. The sensitivity of the skeletal survey and whole- body low -dose CT in the long bones is not significantly 
different ; the difference is mainly in detection of abnormalities in the spine 
and pelvis.
24 In a study of 29 patients, 5 (17%) showed osteolytic lesions 
in CT while skeletal survey results were negative.25 Furthermore, studies 
have shown whole- body low -dose CT is superior to skeletal survey radiographs in areas that are difficult to visualize with skeletal surveys 
such as the skull and ribs.26  
FDG -PET/CT too has been shown to identify more lesions than plain x -
rays and detect lesions in patients with negative skeletal surveys.27-29 It is 
important to note that if FDG -PET/CT is chosen instead of whole- body 
low-dose CT, the imaging quality of the CT part of the FDG -PET/CT 
should be equivalent to a whole- body low -dose CT. Usually the CT part is 
used only for attenuation correction, which may not be sufficient to assess 
bone disease due to MM and stability of the spine. Whole- body PET/CT is 
useful in detecting extramedullary disease outside of the spine.  
For initial diagnostic workup of patients suspected of having MM, the 
NCCN Panel recommends either whole- body low -dose CT or FDG - 
PET/CT. The p anel has also noted that skeletal survey including long 
bones is acceptable where advanced imaging is not available (eg , in low-
resource settings). CT contrast agents are not necessary for detection of myeloma bone disease and should generally  be avoided in myeloma 
patients whenever possible.  
Additional Diagnostic Tests  
The NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel recommends additional tests that may 
be useful in some circumstances. MRI and PET are useful for discerning 
smoldering myeloma from MM.  Since the disease burden in patients with smoldering myeloma is lower than those with MM, imaging techniques 
with high sensitivity need to be used and MRI is a sensitive technique for 
detecting marrow infiltration by myeloma.
30,31 PET is used specifically to 
rule out lytic bone disease as well as extramedullary involvement. 
According to the NCCN Panel, if whole- body low -dose CT or FDG -PET/ 
CT is negative, consider whole- body MRI without contrast to discern 
smoldering myeloma from MM.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-5 A tissue biopsy may also be necessary to confirm the diagnosis of 
suspected  plasmacytomas , particularly extramedullary deposits . Also, if 
amyloidosis is suspected, the diagnosis is established by following the recommendations outlined in the NCCN Guidelines for Systemic Light 
Chain Amyloidosis . 
Serum viscosity should be evaluated when clinical symptoms of 
hyperviscosity are suspected, particularly in those with high levels of M 
protein.   
Hepatitis B and C testing and human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV) 
screening should be done as required.  
Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array and/or next -generation 
sequencing (NGS) panel on bone marrow help provide a more detailed 
evaluation of MM genetics and allow for further risk categorization through 
the identification of additional abnormalities that may be of prognostic 
and/or therapeutic value.32 Therefore, the NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel 
has included these tests as a useful adjunct in certain circumstances.  
The panel  also suggests baseline clone identification or storage of bone 
marrow aspirate sample for clone identification for future minimal residual 
disease (MRD) testing by NGS if required and assessment for circulating 
plasma cells in peripheral blood, as clinically indicated.  Risk assessment 
by gene expression profiling can also be considered.33  
Clinical Findings  
Based on the results of the clinical and laboratory evaluation, patients are initially classified as either MGUS, solitary plasmacytoma, smoldering 
(asymptomatic) disease , or active (symptomatic) disease. More recently, 
patients with an MGUS who have organ dysfunction related to the 
monoclonal gammopathy have been variably classified as having 
monoclonal gammopathy of clinical significance (MGCS) or monoclonal gammopathy of renal significance (MGRS) , depending on the nature of 
organ involvement.  
Staging and Risk S tratification Systems for MM 
Definitions: The IMWG definition of MM includes biomarkers in addition to 
requirements of CRAB features.
34 The CRAB criteria that define MM 
include: increased c alcium levels ( >11.5 mg/dL), renal insufficiency 
(creatinine >2 mg/dL or creatinine clearance < 40 mL/min), anemia 
(hemoglobin <10 g/dL or 2 g/dL less than normal), and presence of b one 
lesions.  The IMWG has also clarified that presence of one or more 
osteolytic lesions seen on skeletal radiography, whole- body MRI, or 
whole -body FDG -PET/CT fulfills the criteria for bone disease.34 The MM -
defining biomarkers identified by the IMWG SLiM features (SLiM stands 
for Sixty, Light chain ratio,  MRI) include one or more of the following: 
greater than or equal to s ixty percent clonal plasma cells in the bone 
marrow; involved/uninvolved free light chain ratio of 100 or more with the 
involved FLC being greater than or equal 100 mg/L; or MRI with more than 
one focal marrow (non- osteolytic) lesion .34 All of these myeloma- defining 
events are referred to as SLiM -CRAB. Asymptomatic patients fulfilling 
these criteria should be treated as having active MM.  
The criteria by the IMWG for patients with smoldering (asymptomatic) MM 
include serum M  protein (IgG or IgA) greater than or equal to 30 g/L and/or 
clonal BMPCs  10% to 59% and absence of CRAB features, myeloma -
defining events, or amyloidosis.34 The updated IMWG diagnostic criteria 
for MM allow initiation of therapy before end -organ damage on the basis of 
specific biomarkers, and also allow the use of sensitive imaging criteria to diagnose MM, including whole- body FDG -PET/CT and MRI.
34 Recently, a 
study analyzed clinical and laboratory information from 421 patients with smoldering myeloma and identified M protein greater than 2 g/dL, FLCr of 
greater than 20, and plasma cells greater than 20% as important risk factors for progression. Patients with 2 or more of these features had a PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-6 median time to progression (TTP) of 29 months.35 Mateos et al in an 
analysis of 2004 patients found that the presence of t(4;14), t(14;16), 1q 
amp/gain, or del(13q) was a further risk factor and patients with one of 
these findings, along with all 3 of the 20/2/20 model had a risk of 
progression of 67% at  2 years.36   
Risk Stratification : The NCCN P anel has provided a list of factors that put 
patients at high risk of disease progression and/or relapse. For patients 
with newly diagnosed MM, these factors include being diagnosed as R -
ISS III, having extramedullary disease,37 having circulating plasma cells,38 
have certain cytogenetic abnormalities [eg, del(1p32) , t(4;14), t(14;14), t 
(14;20), del (17p)/monosomy 17; 1q21 gain/1q21 amplification; MYC 
translocation]39; or high- risk gene expression profile.33  
The NCCN P anel has also listed factors for risk of disease progression in 
those with relapsed MM. These include disease relapse within 2 years of initial therapy with hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) and maintenance 
regimens or with 6 months of primary induction therapy with HCT; acquisition of 1q gain and/or del( 17p)
39; or presence of extramedullary 
disease at  relapse.37 
These factors are useful for counseling patients regarding prognosis and 
for selection and sequencing of subsequent therapy.   
Staging Systems : Those with active MM can be staged using the 
International Staging System (ISS).40 The ISS identifies three  stages 
based on serum beta- 2 microglobulin and serum albumin.  
The revised ISS (R -ISS) includes serum beta- 2 microglobulin, serum 
albumin, and prognostic information from the LDH and high-risk 
chromosomal abnormalities [t(4;14), t(14;16), 17p13 deletion] detected by 
FISH and is the preferred staging approach.41 Having del(17p) and/or 
translocation t(4;14) and/or translocation t(14;16) are considered as high 
risk. Those with no high- risk chromosomal abnormality are considered standard risk. The R -ISS also identifies three stages: 1) R-ISS I , which 
includes ISS I standard risk chromosomal abnormalities or evaluated LDH levels; 2) R-ISS III , which  includes ISS III and either high-risk 
chromosomal abnormalities or elevated LDH levels; and 3) R-ISS II, which  
includes all the other possible combinations and is neither R- ISS I nor R -
ISS II.  
The main limitation of the R -ISS is that most of the patients were classified 
as R-ISS II or the intermediate- risk group ; it therefore included patients 
with large variations in risk of  progression/death.  
In the second revision of the R- ISS (R2 -ISS), the intermediate- risk group 
has been further divided into low - and high- risk groups.23 
Therefore, the R2 -ISS identifies four risk groups by assigning a numerical 
value to each risk factor based on their influence on overall survival (OS): 
ISS-III is 1.5 points, ISS -II is 1 point, del(17p) is 1 point, t(4;14) is 1 point, 
1q+ is 0.5 points, and serum LDH > the upper limit of normal is 1 point. The l ow-risk group is 0 points, l ow-intermediate-risk group is  0.5–1 points; 
intermediate high- risk group is 1.5–2.5 points , and high- risk group  is 3–5 
points.
23 The limitation of R2- ISS is that it has only been validated in newly 
diagnosed MM.  
Solitary Plasmacytoma  
The diagnosis of solitary plasmacytoma or solitary plasmacytoma with 
minimal marrow involvement requires a thorough evaluation with 
advanced imaging studies to rule out the presence of additional lesions or 
systemic disease, because many patients presumed to have solitary 
plasmacytomas are found to have additional sites .42,43  
Whole- body imaging with low -dose CT or FDG -PET/CT is recommended 
for initial diagnostic workup of patients suspected of having MM or solitary 
plasmacytoma. Skeletal survey is acceptable in certain circumstances. 
However, skeletal survey is significantly less sensitive than whole- body PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-7 low-dose CT and FDG -PET/CT in detecting osteolytic lesions in patients 
with monoclonal plasma cell disorders.24   
Whole- body imaging with MRI (or FDG -PET/CT , if MRI is not available) is 
the first choice for initial evaluation of solitary osseous plasmacytoma, and 
whole -body FDG -PET/CT is the first choice for initial evaluation of solitary 
extraosseous plasmacytoma. The sensitivity of FDG -PET/CT for areas of 
increased metabolism and the high soft -tissue resolution of MRI enable 
both techniques to provide information on the presence or absence of solitary plasmacytomas. While the sensitivity of both techniques for the 
detection of focal lesions is similar, MRI provides a higher sensitivity for a 
diffuse infiltration.
44,45 No data exist on the comparison of FDG -PET/CT 
and MRI in solitary plasmacytoma. In retrospective analyses, the risk of 
progression to MM within 2 years of diagnosis has been shown to be 
higher with osseous plasmacytoma (35%) compared with extramedullary 
lesions (7%).46 This might, at least in part, be due to undetected diffuse 
infiltration reflecting systemic disease, which makes the superior sensitivity of MRI significant in this regard . Since the risk of progression of solitary 
plasmacytoma into MM or relapse is relatively high (14% –38% within the 
first 3 years of diagnosis), yearly follow -up with the same imaging 
technique used at first diagnosis should be performed for the first 5 year s 
and subsequently only in case of clinical or laboratory signs or symptoms.
47 
Primary Therapy for Solitary Plasmacytoma  
The treatment and follow -up options for solitary plasmacytoma or solitary 
plasmacytoma with minimal marrow involvement ( <10% plasma cells in 
bone marrow) are similar. RT has been shown to provide excellent local control of solitary plasmacytomas.
48-54 The largest retrospective study (N = 
258) included patients with solitary plasmacytoma (n = 206) or 
extramedullary plasmacytoma (n = 52).55 Treatments included RT alone (n 
= 214), RT plus chemotherapy (n = 34), and surgery alone (n = 8). Five-year OS was 74%, disease- free survival was 50%, and local control was 
85%.55  
Patients  with solitary plasmacytoma  (n = 206) who received localized RT 
(varying doses) had a lower rate of local relapse (12% in those who 
received between 40– 50 Gy) than those who did not  receive RT and were 
treated with surgery (80%) .54 
According to the NCCN Panel, treatment planning of solitary 
plasmacytomas should be performed using modern treatment principles 
including imaging- based delineation (MRI, CT with contrast, and/or FDG -
PET CT) of a gross tumor volume (GTV), clinical target volume (CTV), and 
planning target volume (PTV) and adjacent organs at risk (OAR s). CTV 
expansions should generally include at least 0.5 cm of margin for 
microscopic extent, and up to 2 to 3 cm for involvement of long bones. 
PTV margins should be minimized us ing modern daily image guidance. 
Treatment of adjacent vertebral bodies for spine lesions is not required if 
there is no suspicion of clinical involvement. In addition, advanced 
technology ( ie, intensity -modulated RT [ IMRT ], volumetric modulated arc 
therapy [ VMAT ], protons) should be used when feasible to limit radiation 
doses to surrounding OAR s. Principles of involved -site RT (ISRT) should 
be used to avoid large radiation fields and inappropriately including uninvolved sites that would increase the risk o f toxicity.  
The dose used in most published papers ranges from 30 to 60 Gy.
53,54,56 
The recommended RT dose by the NCCN P anel is 40 to 50 Gy in 1.8 to 
2.0 Gy fractions (20–25 total fractions) to the involved site. The panel also 
recommends treatment with 35 to 40 Gy as an alternative for solitary 
plasmacytomas less than 5 cm in size, due to the high rates of local 
control reported for smaller tumors .51,57- 59 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-8 The response to RT should be assessed after at least 3 months of 
completion of RT.  
 
Surveillance/Follow -up Tests for Solitary Plasmacytoma  
Follow -up and surveillance tests for solitary plasmacytoma consist of 
blood and urine tests and imaging. Serial measurements to check for re -
emergence or appearance of M  protein are required to confirm disease 
sensitivity to RT. The recommended follow -up interval for patients with 
plasmacytoma after RT is every 3 to 6 months. The imaging results may 
not be accurate if the scans are performed sooner than 3 months of RT. 
However, patients with soft tissue and head/neck plasmacytoma could be 
followed less frequently after an initial 3- month follow -up. All 
plasmacytomas should be imaged yearly, preferably with the same technique used at diagnosis, for at least 5 years. 
The blood tests include CBC with differential and platelet count, serum 
chemistry for creatinine, and corrected calcium. Serum FLC assay, serum 
quantitative immunoglobulins , and SPEP with SIFE may be performed as 
needed.  
The urine tests as needed include 24- hour urine assay for total protein, 
UPEP, and UIFE. Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy are recommended as clinically indicated.  
If progression to MM occurs, then the patient should be re -evaluated as 
described in Diagnosis and Workup, and systemic therapy must be administered as clinically indicated.  
Smoldering (Asymptomatic) Myeloma  
Smoldering (asymptomatic) myeloma describes a stage of disease with no symptoms and no related organ or tissue impairment.
60 Patients with asymptomatic smoldering MM may have an indolent course for many 
years without therapy.  
Primary Therapy for Smoldering (Asymptomatic) Myeloma  
Smoldering myeloma is a precursor to MM. All patients with smoldering 
myeloma have a risk of progression to MM.61 However, the rate  of 
progression varies from months to several years based on certain risk 
features.61  
The historic approach for management of smoldering myeloma has been close observation. However, recently there has been mounting evidence 
that those with high -risk features may benefit from early intervention.   
A relatively small, randomized, prospective, phase III study by the 
PETHEMA group investigated whether early treatment with lenalidomide 
and dexamethasone in patients (n = 119) with smoldering myeloma, at 
high risk of progression to active MM, prolongs the TTP.62 The high-risk 
group in the study was defined using the f ollowing criteria: plasma cell 
bone marrow infiltration of at least 10% and/or a monoclonal component (defined as an IgG level of ≥3 g/dL, an IgA level of ≥2 g/dL, or a urinary 
Bence Jones protein level of >1 g per 24 hours); and at least 95% 
phenotypically aberrant plasma cells in the bone marrow infiltrate. The OS 
reported in the trial at 3 years was higher in the group treated with the lenalidomide and dexamethasone arm (94% vs. 80%; HR, 0.31; 95% CI, 
0.10– 0.91; P = .03).
62 At a median follow -up of 75 months (range, 27– 57 
months), treatment with lenalidomide and dexamethasone delayed median 
TTP to symptomatic disease compared to no treatment (TTP was not 
reached in the treatment arm compared to 23 months in the observation 
arm; HR, 0.24; 95% CI, 0.14 –0.41).63 The high OS rate seen after 3 years 
was also maintained (HR, 0.43; 95% CI, 0.20 –0.90). According to the 
NCCN Panel, the flow cytometry -based high- risk criteria specified in the 
study is not uniformly available and participants did not receive advanced PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-9 imaging. Based on the criteria used in the trial, some patients with active 
myeloma were classified as having high- risk smoldering myeloma.  
In a larger , multicenter , phase III , randomized trial, patients with 
smoldering myeloma (n  = 182) were either treated with  lenalidomide until 
progression or observed. The lenalidomide group experienced improved 
progression- free survival (PFS) and  decreased end organ damage (eg, 
renal failure, bone lesions) when compared with those who were 
obser ved.64 Grade 3 or 4 adverse events were reported in 41% of 
patients treated with lenalidomide.64 On subgroup analysis, the PFS 
benefit was  seen  in those with high- risk smoldering myeloma but was 
less clear in those with low - or intermediate- risk disease.64  
The Mayo 2018 20/2/20 criteria stratify  patients based on risk. The criteria 
take into consideration the following risk factors: percentage of BMPC s 
greater than 20%, M  protein greater than 2 g/dL, and FLCr greater than 
20. Patients with two or more of the above risk factors are considered to 
have high risk. These risk factors were developed from a retrospective 
study of patients with smoldering myeloma (n  = 417). In those with high 
risk (≥2 factors present), the estimated median TTP was 29 months, in those with intermediate risk (1 factor present), the estimated median TTP 
was 68 months, and for those with low risk (none of the risk factors 
present), the es timated median TTP was110 months.
35  
The Mayo 2018 20/2/20 criteria were validated in a large retrospective 
analysis of 2004 patients with smoldering myeloma.65 The estimated 
progression rates at 2 years among those with low- , intermediate- , and 
high- risk disease were 5%, 17%, and 46% , respectively.65  
The NCCN Panel suggests using the Mayo 2018/IMWG 20/2/20 criteria to stratify patients based on risk. According to the NCCN Panel, the low-risk 
group should be enrolled in a clinical trial or observed at 3- to 6-month 
intervals (category 1). For the high- risk group, the NCCN Panel prefers enrollment in an ongoing clinical trial (strongly recommended and 
preferred option) or observation at 3 -month intervals, as clinically indicated 
or treatment with single- agent lenalidomide only in carefully selected 
patients (category 2B).
62,64 Those with rising markers or high- risk factors 
must be monitored closely.  It is important to note that patients can evolve 
from having low -risk to high -risk SMM over time, requiring recalibration of 
follow- up strategies.  
Surveillance/Follow -up Tests for Smoldering (Asymptomatic) 
Myeloma 
The surveillance/follow- up tests for smoldering myeloma include CBC with 
differential and platelet count; serum chemistry for creatinine, albumin, 
corrected calcium, serum quantitative immunoglobulins, SPEP, and SIFE; 
and serum FLC assay as clinically indicated. The urine tests include 24-
hour urine assay for total protein, UPEP, and UIFE.  
Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy with FISH, SNP array, NGS, or 
multiparameter flow cytometry may be used as clinically indicated.   
Imaging studies with MRI without contrast, whole- body low -dose CT 
and/or CT, and/or whole- body FDG -PET/CT are recommended annually 
or as clinically indicated. The NCCN Panel recommends considering using 
the same imaging modality used during the initial workup for the follow -up 
assessments. 
If the disease progresses to symptomatic myeloma, then patients should 
be treated according to the guidelines for symptomatic MM.  
Active (Symptomatic) Multiple Myeloma  
Newly diagnosed MM is typically sensitive to a variety of classes of drugs: immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), proteasome inhibitors (PIs), and 
monoclonal antibodies. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-10 Primary Therapy for Active (Symptomatic) Multiple Myeloma 
Patients presenting with active (symptomatic) myeloma are initially treated 
with primary therapy and primary therapy is followed by high- dose 
chemotherapy with autologous HCT in transplant -eligible patients.  
One of the first steps in evaluating newly diagnosed patients with MM is to 
determine whether they are candidates for high- dose therapy and 
transplant, based on age and comorbidities. However, it should be noted that advanced age and renal dysfunction are not absolute 
contraindications to transplant. Therefore, referral to an HCT center to 
assess whether a patient is eligible for HCT is important.  
Stem cell toxins, such as nitrosoureas or alkylating agents , compromise 
stem cell reserve. Regimens with these agents (notably melphalan) should 
be avoided in patients who are potential candidates for HCT until stem 
cells are collected. If delaying HCT,  then stem cells should be collected 
and stored. The p anel recommends harvesting peripheral blood stem cells 
within the first 6 cycles of therapy initiation prior to prolonged exposure to 
lenalidomide and/or daratumumab if HCT is being considered.  
The algorithm has a list of primary therapy regimens recommended by the 
NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel members for transplant -eligible and 
non-transplant candidates and also lists drugs recommended for 
maintenance therapy in each setting. The list is selected and is not 
inclusive of all regimens.  
The NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel has categorized all myeloma therapy 
regimens as: “preferred,” “other recommended,” or “useful in certain 
circumstances.” The purpose of classifying regimens as such is to convey 
the sense of the p anel regarding the relative efficacy and toxicity of the 
regimens. Factors considered by the p anel include evidence, efficacy, 
toxicity, pre -existing comorbidities such as renal insufficiency, and in some 
cases access to certain agents.  The NCCN Panel prefers 3- drug regimens as the standard for primary 
treatment of all patients who are transplant eligible. This is based on 
improved response rates, depth of response, and rates of PFS or OS seen 
with 3 -drug regimens in clinical trials. Frai lty assessment should be 
performed in older adults, as well as consideration of dose modifications, particularly steroids, based on functional status and age.  
The doublet regimens are no longer recommended for transplant candidates with the rationale that doublets would be recommended for 
patients who would not be considered for initial treatment with a 3 -drug 
regimen,  such as those not initially eligible for transplant. Patients with 
poor performance status or who are frail can be started on a 2- drug 
regimen, with a third drug added after performance status improves.  
It is also important to consider supportive care for all patients at diagnosis. 
For example, 80% of patients have bone disease and up to 33% have 
renal compromise. In all patients, careful attention to supportive care is 
critical to avoid early complicatio ns that may compromise therapeutic 
outcome.  
General Considerations for Dosage and A dministration of C ommonly Used 
Agents : 
While weekly and twice- weekly dosing schemas of bortezomib are 
acceptable and supported by data, weekly dosing is preferred.  Twice -
weekly bortezomib can be associated with neuropathy that may limit 
efficacy due to treatment delays or discontinuation. Therefore, Reeder et 
al modified the CyBorD regimen to a once- weekly schedule of 
bortezomib.
66 In the study, patients treated with weekly bortezomib 
achieved responses similar to the twice- weekly schedule ( overall response 
rate [ ORR] , 93% vs. 88%; very good partial response [VGPR ], 60% vs. 
61%). In addition, they experienced fewer  grade 3/4 adverse events 
(37%/3% vs. 48%/12%). Fewer dose reductions of PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-11 bortezomib/dexamethasone were required in the modified schedule and 
neuropathy rates were the same in both cohorts, even though the total 
bortezomib dose per cycle was higher in the weekly versus the twice -
weekly schedule (6.0 mg/m2 vs. 5.2 mg/m2).66 
The NCCN Panel has noted that subcutaneous administration is the 
preferred route for bortezomib. This is based on the results of the MMY -
3021 trial. The trial randomized patients (n = 222) to single- agent 
bortezomib administered either by the conventional IV route or by 
subcutaneous route.67 The findings from the study demonstrate non-
inferior efficacy with subcutaneous versus IV bortezomib with regard to the primary endpoint (ORR after 4 cycles of single- agent bortezomib). The 
results showed no significant differences in terms of PFS or 1- year OS 
between groups.
67,68 However, patients receiving bortezomib 
subcutaneously had a significant reduction in peripheral neuropathy.   
Carfilzomib can potentially cause cardiac, renal, and pulmonary toxicities. Careful assessment before initiating treatment with carfilzomib and close 
monitoring during treatment is recommended. Regarding dosing and 
administration, the panel notes that carfilzomib may be used once or twice 
weekly and at different doses. Ixazomib may be substituted for carfilzomib 
in select patients.  
A randomized trial has compared two formulations of daratumumab as 
monotherapy. The subcutaneous formulation of daratumumab and 
hyaluronidase -fihj resulted in  a similar ORR, PFS, and safety profile and 
fewer infusion -related reactions compared with IV daratumumab.
69 
According to the NCCN Panel, daratumumab IV infusion or 
daratumumab and hyaluronidase- fihj, subcutaneous injection may be 
used in all daratumumab -containing regimens. Some patients may not be 
appropriate for subcutaneous treatment, for example those with 
significant thrombocytopenia.  Prolonged use of steroids can be detrimental in frail patients >60 years of 
age. Therefore, the NCCN P anel recommends a tailored approach of 
reducing the dose to 20 mg weekly and discontinuing  with either treatment 
response plateau or toxicity.70,71  
 
By binding to CD38 expressed on the surface of RBCs, daratumumab and isatuximab- irfc may result in false -positive indirect antiglobulin test 
(indirect Coombs test). The binding of these antibodies to RBCs masks detection of antibodies to minor antigens in the patient’s serum and 
interferes with serologic testing . Therefore, type and screen should be 
performed before using daratumumab or isatuximab -irfc.  
The monoclonal antibodies used for myeloma treatment can produce a 
false -positive serum immunofixation, if the M protein is IgG kappa. In such 
instances, special interference testing or mass spectrometry -based 
assessment may be used to differentiate between the two.  
Bone disease, renal dysfunction, and other complications such as 
infections, hypercalcemia, hyperviscosity, and coagulation/thrombosis 
should be treated with appropriate adjunctive measures (see Supportive 
Care for Multiple Myeloma in this Discussion).  
Preferred Primary Therapy Regimens for Newly Diagnosed 
Transplant Candidates  
The preferred primary therapy options for patients who are HCT eligible 
include bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone (category 1) and 
carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone (category 2A).  
Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
Phase II and III study results have shown that  primary therapy with 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone is active and well tolerated in PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-12 newly diagnosed patients with MM, transplant eligible as well as transplant 
ineligible.  
In the first phase I/II prospective study of lenalidomide/bortezomib/dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed 
MM, the rate of partial response (PR) was 100%, with 74% VGPR or 
better and 52% complete response (CR)/near CR.
72  
The benefits of bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone as primary 
therapy were also seen in the results of the phase II IFM 2008 trial73 and 
phase II EVOLUTION trial.74 In the phase II IFM 2008 trial, patients 
received bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone as induction 
therapy followed by HCT.73 Patients subsequently received 2 cycles of 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone as consolidation cycles and 1 -
year lenalidomide maintenance. VGPR rate or better at the completion of 
induction was 58%.73 After transplantation and consolidation therapy the 
rate of VGPR or better was 70% and 87%, respectively.73  
Bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone was compared to lenalidomide/dexamethasone in the multicenter phase III SWOG S077 
trial.
75 Patients (n = 525) with previously untreated MM were randomly 
assigned to receive 6 months of induction therapy with either bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone (N = 264) or 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone (N = 261), each followed by maintenance 
therapy with lenalidomide/dexamethasone until progression or 
unacceptable. The triple- drug regimen group had significantly longer PFS 
(43 months vs. 30 months; HR, 0.712; 96% CI, 0.56– 0.906) and improved 
median OS (75 months vs. 64 months; HR, 0.709; 95% CI, 0.524–
0.959).
75 As expected, ≥ grade 3 neuropathy was more frequent in the 
bortezomib- containing arm (24% vs. 5%; P < .0001) as bortezomib was 
administered twice weekly and intravenously in this study.75    With longer -term follow- up (median 84 months), the benefits of adding 
bortezomib to lenalidomide and dexamethasone were seen to be 
maintained.76 The PFS with bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone was 
41 months versus 29 months for lenalidomide/dexamethasone.76 The OS 
was not yet reached (>84 months) with the bortezomib regimen versus 69 
months for lenalidomide/dexamethasone.76 
A randomized multicenter phase III trial (ENDURANCE E1A11) studied 
newly diagnosed patients (n  = 1053) with MM  treated with either 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone or 
carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone as induction therapy. Patients 
with high -risk features [ with the exception of patients with t(4;14) ] were 
not included in this trial. After a median follow -up of 9 months, median 
PFS was 34.4 months with the bortezomib -regimen versus 34.6 months 
with the carfilzomib regimen.77 A response of VGPR or better was seen 
in 65% of patients treated with bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone 
and 74% of patients treated with 
carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone ( P = .0015). With respect to 
adverse events, the carfilzomib regimen was associated with less 
peripheral neuropathy but more cardiac,  pulmonary , and renal 
toxicities.77   
In order to minimize the toxicities seen with the standard  dose of 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone, a phase II study evaluated  
the efficacy of dose -adjusted bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone 
(VRd -lite).78 The VRd- lite regimen included subcutaneous bortezomib 
(1.3 mg/m2) on days 1, 8, 15 , and 22, and oral dexamethasone (20 mg) 
on the day of and the day after bortezomib administration. Lenalidomide 
was omitted on days 1, 8, and 15, which are the days of bortezomib 
administration. The ORR after 4 cycles of VRd -lite was 83%, including a 
CR of 25%. The ORR and VGPR or better were further improved to 
100% and 74%, in those who received autologous HCT.78 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-13 Based on the above results, the NCCN Panel included 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone as a category 1, preferred option 
for primary treatment of transplant -eligible patients with MM.  
Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
Carfilzomib is a second -generation PI that binds highly selectively and 
irreversibly to the proteasome. It is administered intravenously.  
A multicenter phase I/II trial evaluated the combination of carfilzomib, 
lenalidomide, and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed patients with MM.79 
In this trial, patients (n = 53) received carfilzomib with lenalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone. After 4 cycles, hematopoietic cells were 
collected from eligible patients.
79 Out of 35 patients from whom 
hematopoietic cells were collected, 7 proceeded to transplantation, and 
the remainder continued with carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone.79 
With a median follow -up of 13 months, 24 -month PFS was estimated at 
92%.The most common grade 3 and 4 toxicities in ≥10% of patients 
included hypophosphatemia (25%), hyperglycemia (23%), anemia (21%), 
thrombocytopenia (17%), and neutropenia (17%). Peripheral neur opathy 
was limited to grade 1/2 (23%).79  
Another phase II trial also evaluated the same regimen (carfilzomib in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone) in newly diagnosed 
patients (n = 45) with MM. After 8 cycles of treatment, patients with stable 
disease (SD) received up to 24 cycles of  lenalidomide 10 mg/day on days 
1 to 21.
80 Thirty -eight patients were evaluable for response and 
toxicity. After a median follow- up of 10 months, PFS was 83.3%.  Twenty -
five patients completed 8 cycles of the carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone regimen, of which 24 continued to lenalidomide therapy 
and 1 patient opted to exit the study after initial therapy.  The most 
common non -hematologic and hematologic toxicities (≥ grade 3) in >10% 
of patients included electrolyte disturbances (18%), liver function test 
elevation (13%), rash/pruritus (11%), fatigue (11%), lymphopenia (63%), anemia (16%), leukopenia (13%), and thrombocytopenia (11%).80  This 
study also accessed MRD. The PFS was found to be longer in patients 
with negative MRD.81 
Another phase II study examined patients (n = 76) with newly diagnosed 
MM who received carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone primary 
therapy followed by HCT. The primary endpoint of sCR after 8 cycles of 
therapy was met, with a 60% sCR rate in the overall population. In a 
median follow -up of 56 months, median PFS and OS were not reached. 
The estimated 5- year PFS rate was 72% , and the estimated 5- year OS 
rate was 84% in the intention to treat population. Adverse events of grade 3 to 4 included neutropenia ( 34%), lymphopenia (32%), infection (22%), 
and cardiac events (3%).
82 
The results of the phase III ENDURANCE trial77 showed similar PFS with 
carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone versus 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone. However, as mentioned 
previously, high- risk patients were not included. 
Carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone was associated with less 
neuropathy but more dyspnea, hypertension, heart failure, and acute 
kidney injury compared with bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone.77 
Based on the data from the above studies, the NCCN Panel has included the carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone regimen as a preferred 
option for primary treatment of transplant -eligible patients with MM.  
The NCCN Panel has included in a footnote that ixazomib may be 
substituted for carfilzomib in select patients receiving the 
carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone regimen. The data from this comes from the phase III TOURMALINE -MM2 trial , which evaluated the 
addition of ix azomib to lenalido mide and dexa meth asone versus lena -
lidomide/dexa metha sone plus placebo in newly diagnosed MM patients 
not eli gible for au tologous HCT.
83 Higher rates of CR were reported with 
the addition of ixazomib to lenalidomide/dexamethasone (26% vs. 14%; PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-14 OR, 2.10 ; P < .001). The median TTP was longer in the ixazomib arm 
(45.8 months vs. 26.8 months; HR, 0.738).83 The primary endpoint was 
PFS, and median  PFS was increased by 13.5 months with the addition 
of ixazomib (35.3 months vs. 21.8 months; HR, 0.830; P = .073).83 This 
trial, however , did not meet its pre -specified primary endpoint of 
improved PFS as the data did not  meet the threshold for statistical 
significance.84 
Other Recommended Primary Therapy Regimens for Newly 
Diagnosed Transplant Candidates  
Daratumumab/Lenalidomide/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone  
The benefit of adding a fourth drug for the primary treatment of 
transplant -eligible patients is emerging. In the phase II GRIFFIN trial, 
transplant -eligible patients with MM (n  = 207) were randomized to 
daratumumab/ bortezomib/ lenalidomide /dexamethasone  or 
bortezomib/ lenalidomide /dexamethasone  followed by autologous HCT 
plus consolidation and maintenance.85 The sCR rate after autologous 
HCT and consolidation with the 4 -drug regimen was 42% versus 32% 
with the 3 -drug regimen.85 Follow -up after a median of 22 months 
showed further improved sCR rates for the daratumumab- containing 4 -
drug regimen (62.6% vs . 45.4%;  P = .0177).85 Although the hematologic 
toxicities were higher with the 4- drug regimen, no major safety concerns 
were reported in the study.85 
Subsequent analysis showed that the benefit persisted after longer 
follow- up. After 24 months, the rate of sCR was 66% for the 
daratumumab- containing 4 -drug regimen compared with 47% for 
bortezomib/ lenalidomide /dexamethasone  (P = .0096). In those who 
received the 4 -drug regimen, the MRD -negative status for ≥ 12 months 
was seen in 44% vs.12.6% with the 3- drug combination ( P < .0001).  86  The NCCN Panel has included 
daratumumab/lenalidomide/bortezomib/dexamethasone as an option for 
primary treatment of transplant -eligible patients with MM.  
Regimens Useful In Certain Circumstances for Newly Diagnosed 
Transplant Candidates  
Bortezomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone   
Data from three phase II studies involving newly diagnosed patients with 
MM have demonstrated high response rates with cyclophosphamide, 
bortezomib, and dexamethasone ( CyBorD) as primary treatment.74,87,88 
The trial by Reeder et al carried out in the United States and Canada demonstrated an ORR of 88% , including a VGPR or greater of 61% and 
39% CR/near CR with CyBorD as the primary regimen.
87 The depth of 
response seen after primary treatment was maintained after transplant in 
those who underwent transplantation (70% rates of CR/near CR; rate of at 
least VGPR or better was 74%).87 According to the long- term follow- up 
analysis, the 5- year PFS and OS rates were 42% (95% CI, 31– 57) and 
70% (95% CI, 59– 82).89 
Analysis of the German DSMM XIa study also demonstrated high 
responses with CyBorD as primary treatment (ORR was 84%, with a 
71.5% PR rate and 12.5% CR rate). High response rates were seen in patients with unfavorable cytogenetics.
88  
In the updated results of the phase II EVOLUTION study, primary 
treatment with CyBorD demonstrated an ORR of 75% (22% CR and 41% 
≥ VGPR), and the 1 -year PFS rate was 93%.74  
Based on data from these and other phase II studies, the NCCN Multiple 
Myeloma Panel has now included the combination of 
bortezomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone to the list of primary 
treatment available for transplant candidates. This is designated as a 
regimen that may be useful in certain circumstances, including in patients PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-15 with acute renal insufficiency or those who do not have access to 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone. According to the NCCN Panel, 
one can consider switching to bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone 
after renal function improves.  
Bortezomib/Doxorubicin/Dexamethasone  
The updated results from the HOVON -65/GMMG- HD4 group phase III trial 
of newly diagnosed patients with stage II/III MM demonstrated high 
response rates after primary therapy with 
bortezomib/doxorubicin/dexamethasone versus 
vincristine/doxorubicin/dexamethas one (VAD), and this superior response 
rate (CR + near CR was 31% vs. 15%; P  < .001) was maintained even 
after HCT with significantly higher ORR.90 No unexpected toxicities 
occurred, and del(13q) did not have a significant impact on response. Response rates improved with bortezomib maintenance (34% vs. 49%; P 
< .001).
90 After a median follow -up of 41 months, PFS in patients treated 
with bortezomib/doxorubicin/dexamethasone as primary therapy followed 
by HCT and bortezomib maintenance was 35 months versus 28 months in 
patients treated with VAD followed by HCT and maintenance with thalidomide. Patients treated with bortezomib/doxorubicin/dexamethasone 
had a significantly better PFS (HR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.62– 0.90; P = .002).
90 
The OS was also found to be better in the bortezomib, doxorubicin, and dexamethasone arm (HR, 0.77; 95% CI, 0.60– 1.00; P = .049). In high- risk 
myeloma with increased creatinine more than 2 mg/dL, bortezomib 
significantly improved PFS from a median of 13 months to 30 months (HR, 
0.45; 95% CI, 0.26– 0.78; P = .004) and OS from a median of 21 months to 
54 months (HR, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.16 –0.65; P < .001). A benefit in terms of 
increased PFS was also observed in patients with deletion of 17p13.
90 The 
rate of grade 2 to 4 peripheral neuropathy was higher in those treated with 
the bortezomib- containing regimen versus VAD (40% vs. 18%). In 
addition, newly developed grade 3 to 4 peripheral neuropathy occurred in 8% of patients during thalidomide maintenance and 5% of patients during 
bortezomib maintenance.90 
Based on data from the HOVON -65/GMMG -HD4 trial and the uniform 
consensus among the NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel members, 
bortezomib/doxorubicin/dexamethasone is a regimen that may be useful in 
certain circumstances for primary therapy for transplant -eligible patients 
with MM.  
Carfilzomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone  
The carfilzomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone regimen has been 
studied in phase I/II trials of transplant -ineligible newly diagnosed patients 
with MM. Trials have investigated both once- weekly and twice -weekly 
carfilzomib dosing combined with fixed- dose cyclophosphamide and 
dexamethasone.91,92 A pooled analysis of two phase I and II studies 
comparing two alternative schedules of carfilzomib, transplant -ineligible 
newly diagnosed patients with MM showed similar response rates in those treated with once- weekly carfilzomib at a dose of 70 mg/m
2 compared to 
those treated with twice -weekly carfilzomib at a dose of 36 mg/m2. The 
PFS and OS were also similar. The median PFS was 35.7 months in the 
once- weekly group and 35.5 months in the twice- weekly group (HR , 
1.39;  P = .26). The 3- year OS was 70% and 72%, respectively (HR , 
1.27;  P = .5).93 
Consistent with the above results, a phase I b study, CHAMPION -2, 
evaluated the safety and tolerability of twice- weekly carfilzomib ( three  
different doses) in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone for the treatment of newly diagnosed MM patients. This 
study found that 56 mg/m
2 carfilzomib combined with weekly 
cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone was effective and with manageable toxicity.
94 
The NCCN Panel has included 
carfilzomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone for both transplant and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-16 non-transplant settings as an option useful in certain circumstances such 
as those with renal insufficiency and/or peripheral neuropathy. The panel 
notes carfilzomib may be substituted with ixazomib in select patients. A multicenter, phase II trial investigated the efficacy and toxicity of ixazomib, 
cyclophosphamide and low -dose dexamethasone as induction, followed 
by single- agent ixazomib maintenance, in older , transplant -ineligible , 
newly diagnosed patients.
95 The ORR after initial therapy with 
ixazomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone was 73%. After a median 
follow- up of 26.1 months, the PFS was 23.5 months.95 
Daratumumab/Bortezomib/Thalidomide/Dexamethasone  
In the CASSIOPEIA trial, patients with newly diagnosed MM (n  = 1085) 
were first randomly assigned to receive induction with 4 cycles of 
bortezomib/thalidomide/dexamethasone with or without daratumumab, 
followed by autologous HCT plus 2 cycles of consolidation with the 
induction regimen.96 The primary endpoint of the first part of this trial was 
assessment of response 100 days after transplantation.   
 
At day 100 after transplantation, the daratumumab arm reported deeper 
response rates (CR or better of 39% vs. 26%). The addition of 
daratumumab increased neutropenia (28% vs . 15%)  and lymphopenia  
(17% vs . 10%) . Infusion reactions to daratumumab  (mostly mild) were 
reported in 35%  of patients .   
 
The NCCN Panel has included  
daratumumab/ bortezomib/thalidomide/dexamethasone  as a primary 
therapy option for transplant -eligible patients with MM  under the category 
useful in certain circumstances (category 2A) based on the results of the 
CASSIOPEIA trial and FDA approval for this indication.  Daratumumab/ Carfilzomib/ Lenalidomide/ Dexamethasone  
A non- randomized clinical trial (n  = 41) examined adding daratumumab to 
the 3 -drug combination regimen of 
carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone without HCT. The primary 
endpoint of MRD  rate was achieved in 71% of patients, with a PFS rate of 
98% and an OS rate of 100% at a median of 11 months follow -up. The 
most common grade 3/4 adverse events included neutropenia (27%), rash 
(9%), lung infection (7%), and increased alanine aminotransferase levels 
(4%).97  
 
The phase II MASTER trial studied daratumumab, carfilzomib, 
lenalidomide, and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed MM and used 
MRD status by NGS to determine whether additional consolidation with 
the induction regimen after autologous HCT is needed, depending on 
whether the subject had two consecutive MRD -negative results at a level 
of 10-5. 
 
At a median follow -up of 25 months, 80% of the overall population reached 
MRD negativity, with a PFS of 87%. The most common serious adverse 
events included pneumonia and venous thromboembolism.98 
The NCCN P anel has included 
daratumumab/carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone as a primary 
therapy option for transplant -eligible patients with MM under the category 
useful in certain circumstances (category 2A) based on the above data.  
 Daratumumab/Bortezomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone  
Patients with MM (n  = 101) including newly diagnosed patients ( n = 87) 
and patients with relapsed MM ( n = 14) received 
daratumumab/bortezomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone.99 In newly 
diagnosed patients, after 4 cycles of induction therapy, VGPR or better 
was seen in 44.2% and the ORR observed was 79.1%.99 The median 
PFS was not reached and the 12 ‐month PFS rate was 87%. At the time PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-17 of clinical cut ‐off, the 12 ‐month OS rate was 98.8% (95% CI, 92.0 –
99.8%).99 Efficacy was also observed in patients with relapsed MM.  
Based on the above results, NCCN Panel has included daratumumab/ 
bortezomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone for newly diagnosed 
patients with MM (transplant eligible and ineligible patients) as an option under useful in certain circumstances.  
Bortezomib, Dexamethasone, Thalidomide, Cisplatin, Doxorubicin, 
Cyclophosphamide, and Etoposide (VTD -PACE)  
The Total Therapy 3 (TT3) trial evaluated induction therapy with the multi -
agent regimen, VTD- PACE (bortezomib, dexamethasone, thalidomide, 
cisplatin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and etoposide) , prior to high-
dose melphalan- based tandem auto- transplants and later as consolidation 
therapy.
100 This regimen is a potent combination of newer agents as well 
as traditional chemotherapy agents. 
This regimen is listed under the category useful in certain circumstances. 
According to the NCCN Panel, VTD -PACE could be an option for newly 
diagnosed patients presenting with high- risk and aggressive 
extramedullary disease or plasma cell leukemia.  
Isatuximab/Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
The GMMG -HD7 evaluated the benefit of the addition of isatuximab to 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone. The study randomized patients 
(n = 662) to receive bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone or 
isatuximab/bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone.101 With respect to 
MRD negativity, the percentage of patients achieving the MRD -negative 
status at the end of induction was higher with the addition of isatuximab 
(50.1% vs . 35.6%; OR , 1.83; 95% CI , 1.34–2.51; P < .001). The rates of 
VGPR or better were also significantly higher with the addition of 
isatuximab (60.5% vs . 77.3%; P < .001) and overall adverse events and 
serious adverse events reported were similar between the arms.101 Preferred Primary Therapy Regimens for Newly Diagnosed Non -
Transplant Candidates  
Many of the regimens described above for transplant candidates are also 
options for non- transplant candidates. As in transplant -eligible patients, 3-
drug regimens are preferred by the NCCN Panel as these regimens have been shown to induce higher response rates and depth of response in 
clinical trials. The 2 -drug regimens are reserved for older  and/or frail 
patients. The list of preferred options for non- transplant candidates 
includes: bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone and 
daratumumab/lenalidomide/dexamethasone.  
Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
Phase II study results (discussed in the transplant setting) have shown 
that primary therapy with bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone is 
active and well tolerated in all newly diagnosed patients with MM 
regardless of autologous HCT status.
72  
The randomized phase III SWOG S0777 trial, comparing 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone to lenalidomide/dexamethasone 
as induction therapy without an intent of immediate transplantation, 
reported superior results with the 3- drug regimen.75,76 
 
In transplant -ineligible newly diagnosed patients with MM, a phase II study 
with the dose- adjusted VRd- lite regimen showed that the dose -adjusted 
regimen had comparable efficacy and better tolerability than the standard-
dose regimen. The VRd-lite dosage included lenalidomide 15 mg orally on 
days 1–21; bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 subcutaneously on days 1, 8, 15, and 
22; and dexamethasone 20 mg orally on the day of and the day after 
bortezomib for 9 cycles followed by 6 cycles of consolidation with 
lenalidomide and bortezomib. The ORR after 4 cycles of VRd- lite was 
86%, with 66% achieving a VGPR or better.102 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-18 The NCCN Panel  included the bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone 
regimen as a category 1, preferred option for patients with MM not eligible 
for HCT, as well as the VRD -lite regimen as an option useful in certain 
circumstances for patients who are frail and not eligibl e for HCT.  
Daratumumab/ Lenalidomide/ Dexamethasone  
In transplant -ineligible patients (n = 737) with newly diagnosed MM, a 
phase III trial (MAIA) compared 
daratumumab/lenalidomide/dexamethasone to 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone. The addition of daratumumab to 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone resulted in median PFS not being reached 
at a median follow -up of 56.2 months compared to a median PFS of 34.4 
months in the control group (HR, 0.68; P  < .0001). The rates of several 
adverse events were higher in the daratumumab group compared to the 
control group, including neutr openia (54% vs . 37%), pneumonia (19% vs . 
11%), and lymphopenia (16% vs . 11%). Treatment -related deaths 
occurred in 4% of patients in the daratumumab group and 3% of patients 
in the control group. Based on the results of this study the FDA has 
approved the use of daratumumab/lenalidomide/dexamethasone in this 
setting.103 
The NCCN Panel has also included 
daratumumab/lenalidomide/dexamethasone as a category 1, preferred 
option for newly diagnosed patients who are transplant ineligible. 
Other Recommended Primary Therapy Regimens for Newly 
Diagnosed Non -Transplant Candidates  
Daratumumab/Bortezomib/Melphalan/Prednisone  
In the randomized phase III trial (ALCYONE), randomized patients (n =  
706) with newly diagnosed MM ineligible for transplant were to receive 
bortezomib/melphalan/prednisone with or without daratumumab until 
disease progression.104 The addition of daratumumab increased the ORR (90.9% vs. 73.9%) , and PFS at 18 months was 72% versus 50%. With 
respect to toxicity, there was an increased rate of grade 3 or 4 infections 
(23% vs. 15%) and daratumumab -related infusion reactions were seen in 
27.7% of patients.  
 
Based on the results of the ALCYCLONE trial, the NCCN Panel has 
included daratumumab/bortezomib/melphalan/prednisone as a category 1 
option for treatment of patients with newly diagnosed MM not eligible for 
HCT. S ince regimens containing melphalan are rarely used in North 
America, the regimen daratumumab in combination with bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone has now been listed under 
other recommended regimens in this setting.       
Carfilzomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
The results of a phase I/II trial demonstrated that the combination of 
carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone is well  tolerated and is also 
effective in all newly diagnosed patients.79 An updated follow- up analysis 
of the subset of 23 older  patients (aged ≥65 years) showed that use of the 
carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and low- dose dexamethasone regimen for an 
extended period of time resulted in deep and durable responses. All 
patients achieved at least a PR. With a median follow -up of 30.5 mont hs, 
the reported PFS rate was 79.6% (95% CI, 53.5– 92.0) and OS was 
100%.105 
 The phase II trial by Korde et al
81 also showed that treatment with the 
carfilzomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone regimen results in high rates of deep remission. The results were very similar across age groups, with the 
oldest patient on the trial being 88 years of age,
 and the regimen was 
found to be effective in individuals with high- risk disease.81  
Based on the above phase II studies that did not exclude transplant -
ineligible patients, the NCCN Panel has included carfilzomib/ PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-19 lenalidomide/dexamethasone as an option for treatment of all patients with 
newly diagnosed MM, including those who are not eligible for HCT.  
The panel has noted in a footnote that ixazomib may be substituted for carfilzomib in select patients. The evidence for this comes from a phase 
I/II study (discussed in the previous section for HCT- eligible candidates) 
that evaluated the safety and efficac y of the all -oral combination of 
ixazomib with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with newly 
diagnosed MM treated with combination lenalidomide and 
dexamethasone.
106 Both tolerability and activity of this regimen in older 
patients (those ≥65 years of age) was similar to that in younger patients in 
this study.  
Daratumumab/ Bortezomib/ Cyclophosphamide/ Dexamethasone  
Based on the results of the LYRA study (described above),99 the NCCN 
Panel has included 
daratumumab/ bortezomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone  as a 
treatment option for non -transplant settings.  
Regimens Useful In Certain Circumstances for Newly Diagnosed 
Non-Transplant Candidates  
Lenalidomide/Low -Dose Dexamethasone 
The results of the SWOG SO232 trial107 that included transplant -ineligible 
patients and the ECOG E4A03 trial108 that included older  patients with MM 
demonstrate that lenalidomide in combination with low -dose 
dexamethasone is a well -tolerated and effective regimen for these groups 
of patients. In the ECOG E4A03 trial the OS rate was significantly higher 
in the lenalidomide plus low -dose dexamethasone arm compared with the 
lenalidomide plus high- dose dexamethasone arm.108 The inferior survival 
outcome seen with high- dose dexamethasone was greatest in patients 
aged ≥65 years. At 2 years, patients who did not proceed to transplant had 
an OS rate of 91% with lenalidomide and low -dose dexamethasone.108  The international, multicenter trial (FIRST trial) evaluated efficacy and 
safety of lenalidomide/dexamethasone given continuously for 72 weeks 
with melphalan/prednisone/thalidomide (MPT) in older  (n = 1623) 
transplantation- ineligible patients with newly diagnosed MM.109 The 
primary endpoint of this trial was PFS, and secondary endpoints were OS 
and adverse events, including the incidence of secondary malignancies. 
After a median of 37 months of follow -up, the risk of progression or death 
was reduced by 28% in patients receiving continuous lenalidomide/dexamethasone versus MPT (HR, 0.72; 95% CI, 0.61– 0.85; 
P < .001).
109 Continuous lenalidomide/dexamethasone also reduced the 
risk of progression or death compared with 18 cycles of 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone (HR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.89– 1.20; P = .70). In 
the interim analysis, an OS benefit was seen in the lenalidomide/dexamethasone arm versus MPT (HR, 0.78; CI, 0.64– 0.96; P 
= .02).
109 
There are several reports showing higher incidences of secondary 
malignancies when lenalidomide is used as a maintenance therapy post -
transplantation or in a melphalan- containing regimen.110- 113 In the FIRST 
trial, the overall incidence of secondary malignancies, including 
hematologic malignancies, was lower in the continuous 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone arm. The overall rates of second primary 
cancers were 3.0% in the continuous lenalidomide/dexam ethasone arm, 
6.0% in the arm receiving 18 cycles of lenalidomide/dexamethasone, and 
5.0% in the MPT arm.109 In an analysis based on renal function of patients 
enrolled in the FIRST trial, continuous lenalidomide/low -dose 
dexamethasone compared with MPT reduced the risk of progression or 
death in patients with normal, mild, and moderate renal impairment by 
33%, 30%, and 35%, respectively.114  
Lenalidomide/low -dose dexamethasone is considered an option useful in 
certain circumstances (category 1) by the NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-20 for transplant -ineligible patients with MM. The panel recommends 
appropriate thromboprophylaxis for patients receiving this therapy. Based 
on the results of the FIRST trial,109,115 the NCCN Panel recommends 
considering treatment with continuous lenalidomide/dexamethasone until disease progression for patients who are not eligible for transplant.  
Lenalidomide/Cyclophosphamide/ Dsexamethasone  
The efficacy and tolerability of  
cyclophosphamide/lenalidomide/dexamethasone in newly diagnosed 
patients was demonstrated in a phase II study.  Of the 53 patients enrolled 
in the trial, 85%  had a PR or better including VGPR in 47%. The median 
PFS was 28 months (95% CI, 22.7– 32.6) and at 2 years the OS was 87% 
(95% CI, 78–96).116  
117The Myeloma XI trial compared responses to 
cyclophosphamide/lenalidomide/dexamethasone with 
cyclophosphamide/thalidomide/dexamethasone.118 The results reported 
that the combination of cyclophosphamide/lenalidomide/dexamethasone was associated with significantly longer PFS (median 36 vs. 33 months, P 
= .0116) and OS at 3 years (82.9% vs . 77.0%, P = .0072). 
118 
The NCCN Panel included lenalidomide/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone as a primary therapy 
option for patients with MM  who are not eligible for transplant under the 
category useful in certain circumstances (category 2A).  
Bortezomib/Dexamethasone  
A U.S. community -based, randomized, open -label, multicenter, phase IIIb 
UPFRONT trial compared the safety and efficacy of three highly active bortezomib- based regimens in previously untreated older  patients with MM 
ineligible for HCT.
119 The patients with symptomatic, measurable MM were 
randomized (1:1:1) to one of the following regimens: 
bortezomib/dexamethasone (n = 168); bortezomib/thalidomide/dexamethasone (n = 167); or 
melphalan/prednisone/bortezomib (n = 167) followed by maintenance 
therapy with bortezomib. The primary endpoint was PFS; secondary 
endpoints included ORR, CR/near CR and VGPR rates, OS, and safety. 
All thr ee induction regimens exhibited substantial activity, with an ORR of 
73% (bortezomib/dexamethasone), 80% (bortezomib /thalidomide/dexamethasone), and 70% 
(melphalan/prednisone/bortezomib) during the treatment period.
120 After a 
median follow -up of 42.7 months, the median PFS and OS were not 
significantly different between the three treatment arms.119 Response 
rates, including CR and greater than or equal to VGPR, improved after 
bortezomib maintenance, with no concomitant increase in the incidence of 
peripheral neuropathy.  
While the triple regimen with bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone is the preferred therapy for patients with newly diagnosed MM, older or frail 
patients may be treated with doublet regimens. The NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel has included bortezomib/dexamethasone as a primary 
therapy as an option that is useful in certain circumstances for patients 
with MM who are ineligible for HCT. 
Bortezomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone  
The role of bortezomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone as initial 
therapy for patients with MM ineligible for HCT was studied in a small 
phase II trial (n = 20).
121  The median age of patients in this study was 76 
years (range 66–90 years).  After a median of 5 cycles, the ORR was 95% 
with 70% of patients achieving VGPR or better response. With respect to 
toxicity, 6 patients experienced non- hematologic grade 3/4 adverse events 
(20%), including muscle weakness, sepsis, and pneumonia. Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were seen in 2 patients (10%).
121  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-21 Based on the above and  the results from the EVOLUTION trial74 
(described earlier) that had included transplant -ineligible patients and the 
above phase II trial results,121  the NCCN Panel has included 
bortezomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone as an option useful in 
certain circumstances for non- transplant candidates. This option may be 
considered especially in patients with acute renal insufficiency or for 
patients who have no access to a PI in combination with 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone. According to the NCCN Panel, one can 
consider switching to PI/lenalidomide/dexamethasone after renal function 
improves.  
Carfilzomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone  
A phase II study examined the safety and efficacy of 
carfilzomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone in patients ≥65 years of 
age with newly diagnosed MM and ineligible for autologous HCT.91 Out of 
55 patients, 52 (95%) had at least a PR, 39 of 55 (71%) patients had at least a VGPR, 27 of 55 (49%) patients had a near CR or CR, and 11 of 55 
(20%) patients had an  sCR. After a median follow -up of 18 months, the 2 -
year PFS and OS rates were 76% and 87%, respectively.
91 Frequently 
reported grade 3 to 5 toxicities were neutropenia (20%), anemia (11%), 
and cardiopulmonary events (7%). Peripheral neuropathy was limited to 
grades 1 and 2 (9%).  
The NCCN Panel has included 
carfilzomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone as an option useful in 
certain circumstances for treatment of patients with newly diagnosed MM 
not eligible for HCT with renal insufficiency and/or peripheral neuropathy.  Monitoring After Primary Myeloma Therapy of Both Transplant and 
Non-Transplant Candidates  
Response Criteria  
Assessing the response to treatment is a key determinant of MM treatment. Patients on treatment should be monitored for response to 
therapy and for symptoms related to disease and/or treatment.  
The updated IMWG response criteria definitions
8,122,123 for CR, sCR, 
immunophenotypic CR, molecular CR, VGPR, PR, minimal response (MR) 
for relapsed/refractory MM, SD, and progressive disease (PD) are outlined 
in Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma in the algorithm. This has been 
updated to include measures of MRD assessments. It is recommended that the IMWG uniform response criteria should be used in all clinical 
trials.
124 According to the NCCN Panel, response should be assessed 
using the IMWG criteria.8 
The same imaging modality used during the initial workup should ideally be used for the follow -up assessments. Follow -up tests after primary MM 
therapy include those used for initial diagnosis: a CBC with differential and platelet counts, blood glucose, el ectrolytes , and metabolic panel.  
Assessing changes in levels of various proteins, particularly the M  protein, 
helps track disease progression and response to treatment. SPEP  is used 
to track  for quantitative immunoglobulins and 24- hour urine UPEP  helps 
track total protein.   
The FLCr is required for documenting sCR according to the IMWG 
Uniform Response Criteria.
8 The serum FLC assay cannot replace the 
24-hour UPEP for monitoring patients with measurable urinary M  protein 
and can also be affected by renal function.  
Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy with FISH should be performed as 
clinically indicated, especially at relapse.   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-22 Follow -up with advanced whole- body imaging (ie, FDG -PET/CT, low- dose 
CT, whole -body MRI without contrast) is recommended as needed. 
Residual focal lesions detected by either FDG -PET/CT or MRI have been 
shown to be of adverse prognostic significance.125- 128 Zamagni et al 
reported PFS of 44 months in patients with residual focal lesions on FDG -
PET/CT versus 84 months for those without residual focal lesions on FDG -
PET/CT after systemic treatment ( P = .0009).127 In the IMAJEM trial, both 
PFS and OS were significantly better in patients with negative FDG -
PET/CT results before initiation of maintenance therapy ( P = .011 and P = 
.033, respectively).128 An analysis by Walker et al showed that 
conventional MRI normalizes over a prolonged period of time making 
FDG -PET/CT superior in this regard.125 However, in small cohorts, 
functional imaging sequence for MRI called diffusion- weighted imaging 
was shown to have superior sensitivity to detect residual disease 
compared with FDG -PET/CT.129- 131 Furthermore, unlike FDG -PET/CT, MRI 
does not expose the patient to radiation.  
A meta -analysis of 14 studies has shown that MRD negativity predicts 
improved PFS and OS, including in those who achieved CR.132 Therefore, 
the NCCN P anel recommends consideration of MRD testing as indicated 
for prognostication after shared decision- making.  
Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation  
The NCCN Panel recommends considering harvesting peripheral blood 
hematopoietic stem cells prior to prolonged exposure to lenalidomide 
and/or daratumumab (ie, optimally 4 or fewer induction cycles) in patients 
for whom transplant is being considered. Collecting enough hematopoietic stem cells for two transplants (depending on the intended number of 
transplants and age) in anticipation of a tandem transplant, boost after 
cellular therapy , or a second transplant as subsequent therapy is 
recommended. Alternatively, all patients may consider continuation of primary therapy until the best response is reached. The optimal duration of 
primary therapy after achieving maximal response is unknown; hence, maintenance therapy (see section on Maintenance Therapy ) or 
observation can be considered beyond maximal response.  
Transplant Eligibility  
All patients are assessed to determine eligibility for HCT. The NCCN Panel recommends that all patients eligible for HCT should be referred for 
evaluation by HCT center  and hematopoietic stem cells (for at least two 
transplants, in younger patients) should be harvested.  
High-dose therapy with HCT support is a critical component in the 
treatment plan of eligible patients newly diagnosed with MM. The types of 
HCT may be single autologous HCT, a tandem HCT (a planned second 
course of high -dose therapy and HCT within 6 months  of the first course), 
or an allogeneic HCT.  
The NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma indicate that all types of HCT 
are appropriate in different clinical settings; these indications are 
discussed further below. In general, all candidates for high- dose 
chemotherapy must have sufficient hepatic, renal, pulmonary, and cardiac function. However, renal dysfunction is not an absolute contraindication to 
transplant.  
Autologous Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation  
Autologous HCT results in high response rates and remains the standard of care after primary therapy for eligible patients. In 1996, results of the 
first randomized trial were reported; this trial demonstrated that autologous 
HCT is associated with statist ically significantly higher response rates and 
increased OS and event -free survival (EFS) when compared with the 
response of similar patients treated with conventional therapy.
133 In 2003, 
results of a second trial comparing high- dose therapy to standard therapy 
showed an increase in the CR rate and an improvement in OS (54 months 
in the high- dose group compared to 42 months for standard therapy).134 
Barlogie and colleagues reported on the results of an American trial that PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-23 randomized 510 patients to receive high- dose therapy with autologous 
HCT or standard therapy.135 With a median follow -up of 76 months, there 
were no differences in response rates, PFS, or OS between the two 
groups. The reason for the discrepant results is not clear but may be 
related to differences in the specific high -dose and conventional regimens 
between the American and French study. For example, the American study included total body irradiation (TBI) as part of the high- dose 
regimen; TBI has subsequently been found to be inferior to high- dose 
melphalan.
136 
Another trial included 190 patients 55 to 65 years of age randomized to 
standard or high- dose therapy.137 This study was specifically designed to 
include older patients, since the median age of the participants in other trials ranged from 54 to 57 years and the median age in this trial was 61 
years. After 120 months of follow -up, there was no significant diff erence in 
OS, although there was a trend toward improved EFS in the high- dose 
group ( P = .7). Additionally, the period of time without symptoms, 
treatment, or treatment toxicity was significantly longer in the high- dose 
group. The study concluded that the equivalent survival suggests that the 
treatment choice between high- dose and conventional -dose 
chemotherapy should be based on personal choice in older patients. For example, an early transplant may be favored because patients can enjoy a 
longer interval of symptom -free time.  
A phase III study compared high- dose melphalan followed by autologous 
HCT with MPR (melphalan, prednisone, and lenalidomide) consolidation 
after induction. Patients (n = 402) were randomly assigned (in a 1:1:1:1 
ratio) to one of the four groups: high- dose therapy and autologous  HCT 
followed by maintenance with lenalidomide; high -dose therapy and HCT 
alone; primary therapy with MPR followed by lenalidomide; and primary 
therapy with lenalidomide alone.
138 At a median follow -up of 51 months, 
HCT resulted in longer median PFS (43 vs. 22 months; HR 0.44; 95% CI, 0.32– 0.61) and OS (82% vs. 65% at 4 years; HR 0.55; 95% CI, 0.32 –
0.93).138 
Results from the IFM 2005/01 study of patients with symptomatic MM receiving primary therapy with bortezomib and dexamethasone versus 
VAD showed a marked improvement in ORR with bortezomib and 
dexamethasone over VAD (see Preferred Primary Therapy Regimens for 
Newly Diagnosed Transplant Candidates ).
139 Responses were evaluated 
after primary treatment and post -autologous HCT. After the first 
autologous HCT, CR/near -CR rates were 35.0% in the bortezomib plus 
dexamethasone arm, compared with 18.4% in the VAD arm.139 The VGPR 
rates were 54.3% versus 37.2%. Median PFS was 36.0 months versus 
29.7 months ( P = .064) with bortezomib plus dexamethasone versus VAD 
after a median follow -up of 32.2 months.139 Also, PFS was also 
significantly longer in patients achieving greater than or equal to VGPR 
after primary treatment than in patients achieving less than VGPR (median 
36 vs. 29.7 months).139 
In another study, 474 patients were randomized to primary therapy with 
bortezomib/dexamethasone/thalidomide (n = 236) or 
thalidomide/dexamethasone (n = 238) before double autologous HCT and 
as consolidation therapy after HCT.140 The 3- drug regimen yielded high 
response rates compared with the 2 -drug regimen, with a CR rate of 19% 
(vs. 5%) and greater than or equal to VGPR of 62% (vs. 31%). After HCT, improved incremental responses were still seen with 
bortezomib/dexamethasone/thalidomide compared with thalidomide plus 
dexamethasone.
140 The IFM 2009 phase III trial compared the efficacy and 
safety of bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone alone versus 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone plus autologous HCT for the 
treatment of newly diagnosed MM in patients ≤65 years.141 The reported 
CR rate was 48% in the group that received induction therapy alone 
versus 59% in the transplantation group ( P = .03). No MRD was detected PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-24 in 65% of the patients who received 
bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone alone versus no MRD in 79% of 
the patients who received induction therapy plus autologous HCT ( P < 
.001).141 There was a clear improvement in PFS with HCT (50 months vs. 
36 months). These results clearly show the benefit of autologous HCT, 
with higher rates of durable responses in those with no MRD after initial 
therapy.141 Taken together, the studies suggest that improved responses 
with the primary regimen result in improved outcomes after transplantation 
even for patients receiving an IMiD and PI -based triplet regimen.  
The OS of patients in the IFM 2009 phase III trial was high in both groups, 
the one that received autologous HCT and the one that did not.141 
Although autologous HCT improved PFS it did not improve OS, suggesting that delaying HCT is an option and is not associated with 
negative effects on OS.  
According to the NCCN Guidelines, for transplant -eligible patients 
autologous HCT is the preferred option after primary induction therapy 
while a delayed HCT after early stem cell collection and storage is 
appropriate as well (category 1) . A repeat HCT can be considered for 
treatment of progressive/refractory disease after primary treatment in patients with prolonged response to initial HCT.  
Tandem Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation  
Tandem HCT refers to a planned second course of high- dose therapy and 
HCT within 6 months of the first course. Planned tandem transplants have 
been studied in several randomized trials.  The IFM94 trial reported by 
Attal et al randomized newly diagnosed patients with MM to single or tandem autologous transplants.
142 A total of 78% of patients assigned to 
the tandem transplant group received the second transplant at a median 
time of 2.5 months after the first. A variety of options for therapy of 
relapsed disease were provided. For example, relapsing patients in either  
group underwent either no therapy, additional conventional therapy, or another HCT. The probability of EFS for 7 years after the diagnosis was 
10% in the single transplant group compared to 20% in the double 
transplant group. In a subset analysis, those patients who did not achieve 
a complete CR or VGPR within 3 months after the first transplant 
appeared to benefit the most from a second transplant. The investigators 
of the IFM94 study have suggested that the improvement in projected 
survival associated wi th tandem transplant is related not to improved 
response rates, but to longer durations of response. Four other randomized trials have compared single versus tandem transplant.
137,143- 145 
None of these trials showed a significant improvement in OS. However, 
since the median follow -up in these trials ranged from 42 to 53 months, 
the lack of significant improvement is not surprising. The trial by Cavo et al
143 found that patients not in CR or near CR after the first transplant 
benefited the most from a second transplant. This confirms the observations of the IFM94 trial using non- TBI–based high- dose regimens. 
In both the French and Italian trials, the benefit of a second autologous HCT was seen in patients who do not achieve a CR or VGPR (>90% 
reduction in M  protein level) with the first procedure. These two studies 
were not adequately powered to evaluate the equivalence of one versus two transplants in patients  achieving a CR or VGPR after the first 
transplantation.  
A review of long- term outcomes of several trials of autologous 
transplantation by Barlogie et al found that tandem transplantations were 
superior to both single transplantations and standard therapies.
146 Also, 
post-relapse survival was longer when EFS was sustained for at least 3.5 
years after tandem transplantation.146-147 Results of the multicenter, phase 
III study (EMN02/HO95 MM trial) suggested that tandem autologous HCT 
for newly diagnosed MM may be superior in extending PFS compared with 
single autologous HCT after induction therapy with a bortezomib- based 
regimen.148 In another more recent study, after initial HCT patients were 
randomly assigned to receive a second HCT followed PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-25 by lenalidomide maintenance; or 4  cycles of  bortezomib, lenalidomide, 
and dexamethasone  followed by lenalidomide maintenance; or 
lenalidomide maintenance alone.149 At 38 months, all three arms showed 
similar PFS and OS.149  
The NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel recommends collecting enough 
hematopoietic stem cells for at least one HCT in all  eligible patients, and 
for two transplants in the younger patients if tandem transplant or repeat  
transplant would be considered. According to the NCCN Multiple Myeloma 
Panel, a tandem transplant with or without maintenance therapy can be 
considered for all patients who are candidates for HCT and is an option for 
patients who do not achieve at least a VGPR after the first autologous 
HCT and thos e with high -risk features. The support for use of 
maintenance therapy after tandem transplant comes from the study by Palumbo et al,
138 which addressed the role of maintenance therapy with 
lenalidomide after autologous transplantation.138 Although associated with 
more frequent grade 3 or 4 neutropenia and infections, maintenance 
therapy with lenalidomide was found to significantly reduce risk of disease 
progression or death (HR, 0.47) after both single and tandem 
transplantation compared w ith no maintenance.138 
A second autologous HCT can be considered at the time of disease relapse. A retrospective case- matched control analysis was performed 
comparing patients who underwent a second autologous HCT to those treated with conventional chemotherapy for relapsed MM.
150 Similar to 
previously published smaller studies,151- 153 this retrospective analysis 
demonstrated that a second autologous HCT is associated with superior 
relapse- associated mortality compared with conventional chemotherapy 
(68% vs. 78%), along with improved OS (32% vs. 22%) at 4 years. In this analysis, factor s associated with improved OS and PFS included younger 
age (<55 years), beta- 2 microglobulin <2.5 mg/L at diagnosis, a remission 
duration of >9 months, and a greater than PR to their first autologous HCT. This analysis indicates that a second autologous tr ansplant, for 
relapsed or progressive MM, may be an option for carefully selected 
patients. Some of these patients can achieve durable complete or partial 
remission.
153,154 
A multicenter, randomized phase III trial compared treatment with high-
dose melphalan plus second autologous HCT with cyclophosphamide in 
patients with relapsed MM who had received autologous HCT as primary 
treatment.155 The patients included in the study were >18 years of age and 
needed treatment for progressive or relapsed disease at least 18 months after a previous autologous HCT. All patients first received 
bortezomib/doxorubicin/dexamethasone induction therapy. Patients with 
adequately harvested hematopoieti c stem cells were then randomized to 
high- dose melphalan plus second autologous HCT (n = 89) or oral 
cyclophosphamide (n = 85). The primary endpoint was time to disease 
progression.
155 After a median follow -up of 31 months, median TTP in 
patients who underwent second autologous HCT after induction therapy 
was 19 months versus 11 months for those treated with cyclophosphamide (HR, 0.36; 95% CI, 0.25– 0.53; P < .0001). Grade 3– 4 
neutropenia (76% vs. 13%) and thrombocytopenia (51% vs. 5%) were 
higher in the group that underwent autologous HCT versus 
cyclophosphamide.
155 Median OS in the HCT group was 67 months versus 
52 months in the cyclophosphamide maintenance group.156 
According to the NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel, repeat autologous HCT 
for relapsed disease may be considered either on or off clinical trial 
depending on the time interval between the preceding HCT and 
documented progression.  
The prognosis of patients who relapse after autologous HCT appears to 
differ depending on the timing of the relapse.157- 161 Data from retrospective 
studies162- 165 suggest 2 to 3 years as the minimum length of remission for 
consideration of second autologous HCT for relapsed disease.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-26 Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation  
Allogeneic HCT includes either myeloablative or nonmyeloablative (ie, 
“mini” transplant) transplants. Allogeneic HCT has been investigated as an 
alternative to autologous HCT to avoid the contamination of reinfused 
autologous tumor cells, but also to take advantage of the beneficial graft -
versus -tumor effect associated with allogeneic transplants. However, lack 
of a suitable donor and increased morbidity has limited this approach,  
particularly for the typical older MM population. Non- myeloablative 
transplants are designed to decrease the morbidity of the high- dose 
chemotherapy but preserve the beneficial graft -versus- tumor effect. 
Therefore, the principal difference between myeloablative and 
nonmyeloablative transplants relates to the chemotherapy regimen used. 
Specific preparatory regimens have not been a focus of the NCCN 
Guidelines, and therefore these guidelines do not make a distinction 
between these approaches.  
Given the small candidate pool, it is not surprising that there have been no 
randomized clinical trials comparing myeloablative allogeneic to 
autologous HCT, but multiple case series have been published describing 
allogeneic HCT as an initial therapy or as  therapy for relapsed/refractory 
MM. In a 1999 review, Kyle et al reported a mortality rate of 25% within 
100 days and overall transplant -related mortality of approximately 40% 
and few patients were cured.166 Other reviews have also reported 
increased morbidity without convincing proof of improved survival.167,168 
However, there are intriguing data from the SWOG randomized trial of autologous transplant versus conventional chemotherapy.
135 The original 
trial had an ablative, allogeneic transplant group consisting of patients with 
HLA identical siblings. Thirty -six patients received allografts, and due to 
the high 6 -month mortality of 45%, the allogeneic arm was closed. After 7 
years of foll ow-up the OS of the conventional chemotherapy, autologous, 
and allogeneic arms were all identical at 39%. The autologous and 
conventional chemotherapy arms do not demonstrate a plateau, whereas the allogenic curve was flat at 39%. This suggests that a proportion of 
these patients are long- term survivors. Thus, there is ongoing interest in 
myeloablative allogeneic HCT, particularly given the lack of a significant 
cure rate for single or tandem autologous HCT.  
Patients whose disease either does not respond to or relapses after 
allogeneic hematopoietic cell grafting may receive donor lymphocyte 
infusions to stimulate a beneficial graft -versus -myeloma effect169- 176 or 
other myeloma therapies on or off a clinical trial.  
Follow -Up After Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation  
Follow -up tests after HCT are similar to those done after primary myeloma 
therapy. MRD assessment is indicated for prognostication. Studies have shown that MRD negativity after autologous HCT translates to significantly 
improved PFS and OS rates.
177- 179 Similar results have also been reported 
in the allogeneic HCT setting where  the presence of MRD after allogeneic 
HCT has been associated with a significantly adverse PFS and OS.180 The 
NCCN Panel recommends assessing for MRD during follow -up as 
indicated prognostication after shared decision- making with patient .124 
Maintenance Therapy  
The NCCN Panel has clarified in the algorithm section the maintenance regimens appropriate for those who received autologous HCT versus 
those who did not and classified them as either preferred , other 
recommended , or useful in certain circumstances.  
Maintenance Therapy: Preferred Regimen  
Lenalidomide as Maintenance  
Lenalidomide as maintenance therapy after autologous transplantation 
has been evaluated in two independent randomized phase III 
studies.
110,111 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-27 In the CALGB 100104 trial, patients were randomized to maintenance 
therapy with lenalidomide (n = 231) versus placebo (n = 229) after 
autologous HCT.111 At a median follow -up of 34 months, 37% of the 
patients who received lenalidomide versus 58% who received placebo had disease progression or died. The median TTP in the lenalidomide group 
was 46 months  versus 27 months in the placebo group ( P < .001). Second 
primary cancers occurred in 18 patients who received lenalidomide (8%) and in 6 patients who received placebo (3%).
111 
Data from the international, randomized, double- blind phase III IFM 
2005- 02 trial (n = 614) show that patients treated with lenalidomide as 
consolidation therapy after an autologous HCT followed by lenalidomide as maintenance therapy had upgraded responses . Of the 614 patients 
enrolled in the trial, 307 were randomly assigned to lenalidomide 
maintenance therapy and 307 to placebo. Maintenance treatment was 
continued until the patient withdrew consent, the disease progressed, or 
unacceptable toxic effects oc curred. The final
 analysis of the IFM 2005- 02 
trial was performed after a median follow -up of 30 months and 264 
patients had disease progression (104 in the lenalidomide group and 160 
in the placebo group).  The median PFS was 41 months in the 
lenalidomide group, compared with 23 months in the placebo group (HR, 0.50; P < .001; median follow -up period was 30 months). The probability of 
surviving without progression for 3 years after randomization was 59% in those treated with lenalidomide and 35% in those who received the 
placebo. The benefit of lenalidomide maintenance therapy, evidenced by 
rate of PFS at 3 years after randomization, was higher in all patients who received lenalidomide maintenance therapy compared with those who 
received placebo. This benefit was observed in patients who had a VGPR 
at randomization (64% vs. 49%, P = .006) and those who did not (51% vs. 
18%, P < .001).
110 An increased incidence of second primary cancers was 
observed in the lenalidomide group ( 32 had second primary cancers in the 
lenalidomide group and 12 in the placebo group) .110 The updated survival analysis of the same study after 91 months for follow -up reported median 
TTP of 57.3 months (95% CI, 44.2 –73.3) with lenalidomide and 28.9 
months (23.0– 36.3) with placebo (HR, 0.57; 95% CI, 0.46– 0.71; P < 
.0001).181 The most common grade 3– 4 adverse events in the 
lenalidomide group compared to placebo were neutropenia (50% vs. 18%) 
and thrombocytopenia (15% vs. 5%). An increased rate of second primary 
malignancies (hematologic plus solid tumor) were diagnosed in the 
lenalidomide group compar ed with placebo (14% vs. 4%).181 
The study by Palumbo et al138 (discussed in Autologous Hematopoietic 
Cell Transplant ation) showed that although maintenance therapy with 
lenalidomide is associated with more frequent grade 3 or 4 neutropenia 
and infections, it significantly reduced risk of disease progression or death 
(HR, 0.47) compared with no maintenance.138 
The benefit of lenalidomide maintenance was studied in a meta -analysis of 
data from 1209 patients enrolled in the trials discussed above randomized to maintenance with lenalidomide or placebo.
182 The study showed 
improved median PFS with lenalidomide maintenance (52.8 vs. 23.5 
months; HR 0.48; 95% CI, 0.42 –0.55). At 7 years, the OS was 62% in the 
group receiving lenalidomide maintenance versus 50% in the group receiving placebo. In those with high- risk cytogenetics, a PFS benefit, but 
not an OS benefit was seen with lenalidomide maintenance versus placebo.  
The lenalidomide group had higher rates of second primary malignancy 
occurring before progression, and the rates of PD were higher in the group 
receiving placebo.  
A report from the HOVON 76 trial indicates that lenalidomide maintenance 
may not be a feasible option after mini -allogeneic HCT.
183 However, 
another recently reported study has shown the feasibility of maintenance PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-28 therapy with low -dose lenalidomide after allogeneic HCT in patients with 
high- risk MM.184 
Data from the phase III MM -015 study show that lenalidomide 
maintenance after primary therapy with 
melphalan/prednisone/lenalidomide (MPL) significantly reduced the risk of 
disease progression and also increased PFS.185 In this study, newly 
diagnosed patients with MM (n = 459) aged ≥65 years were randomized to 
receive MP followed by placebo, MPL, or MPL followed by lenalidomide 
until progression. Maintenance with lenalidomide significantly prolonged 
PFS. The PFS of patients treated with MPL followed by maintenance 
lenalidomide was significantly prolonged (n = 152; median, 31 months) 
compared with the other two arms: MPL (n = 153; median, 14 months; HR, 
0.49; P < .001) or MP (n = 154; median, 13 months; HR, 0.40; P < .001) . 
Lenalidomide maintenance therapy improved PFS by 66% compared with placebo, regardless of age.
185 In the FIRST trial, use of lenalidomide 
indefinitely until progression was associated with a superior PFS 
compared with a fixed duration of 18 months.  
The GMMG -MM5 trial (n  = 502) examined maintenance therapy with 
lenalidomide following induction therapy and HCT in newly diagnosed 
MM patients. Patients received lenalidomide for a fixed duration of 2 
years or until either CR. The primary endpoint was PFS, which was not significantly different between arms after a median follow -up of 60.1 
months. Higher OS was seen with lenalidomide given for 2 years than for 
lenalidomide given until CR (HR , 1.42; 95% CI, 1.04 –1.93;  P= .03). 
Serious adverse events were more  common in the group that received 
lenalidomide for 2 years versus until CR (77.6% vs . 58.2%) and included 
infections, cardiac disorders, neuropathy, and thromboembolic events.
186 
Based on the evidence from the phase III trials,110,111,185 the NCCN Multiple 
Myeloma Panel lists single- agent lenalidomide as one of the preferred 
maintenance regimens (category1) for both transplant -eligible and transplant -ineligible patients. Lenalidomide lacks the neurologic toxicity 
seen with thalidomide. However, there seems to be an increased risk for secondary cancers, especially post -transplantation,
110- 112 or after a 
melphalan- containing regimen.113 According to the results of the FIRST 
trial, in the continuous lenalidomide/dexamethasone arm, the absence of 
the alkylator melphalan seems to be more effective in terms of improving 
PFS and lowering incidence of second malignancies.109  
A meta -analysis of randomized controlled trials examined patients treated 
with lenalidomide maintenance versus patients with no maintenance or 
placebo in the transplant setting.182 The analysis showed that patients 
treated with lenalidomide maintenance had significantly improved PFS (HR, 0.48; 95% CI, 0.41 –0.55) and a trend toward OS with lenalidomide 
maintenance (HR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.63– 0.90; P = .001)  versus no 
maintenance or placebo. 
182   
The benefits of improved PFS with lenalidomide maintenance must be 
weighed against the increased rate of severe (grade 3 and 4) neutropenia, 
risk of second cancers, and other toxicities.187 The NCCN Panel notes that 
the benefits and risks of maintenance therapy with lenalidomide versus 
secondary cancers should be discussed with patients.  
Other Recommended Regimen for Maintenance Therapy  
Bortezomib as Maintenance Therapy  
The results from the HOVON study show that maintenance with single-
agent bortezomib after autologous HCT is well tolerated and is associated 
with improvement of ORR.90 Patients in the HOVON trial were randomly 
assigned to one of the two arms consisting of either primary treatment with 
VAD followed by autologous HCT and maintenance with thalidomide or with bortezomib/doxorubicin/dexamethasone followed by autologous HCT 
and bortezomib as maintenance therapy for 2 years. The study reported 
high near -CR/CR rates after
 primary treatment with the bortezomib -based PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-29 regimen. Bortezomib as maintenance therapy was well tolerated and 
associated with additional improvement of response rates90 (see Preferred 
Primary Therapy Regimens for Newly Diagnosed Transplant Candidates).  
A multicenter phase III trial in newly diagnosed patients with MM showed 
that consolidation with bortezomib after autologous HCT improved PFS 
only in patients not achieving at least VGPR after autologous HCT.188 
There was no difference in PFS in patients with greater than or equal to 
VGPR after autologous HCT.  
The results of the phase III UPFRONT study also show that maintenance 
with single -agent bortezomib is well  tolerated when administered after 
treatment with bortezomib- based primary therapy.119 Newly diagnosed 
patients with MM ineligible for high- dose therapy and HCT enrolled in the 
UPFRONT trial were randomized (1:1:1) and treated with one of the 
following bortezomib- based primary regimens: bortezomib and 
dexamethasone; bortezomib in combination with thalidomide and dexamethasone; or bortezomib with melphalan and prednisone followed 
by maintenance treatment with bortezomib. The results show that the 
response rates, including CR and greater than or equal to VGPR, 
improved after bortezomib maintenance in all arms, with no concomitant increase in the incidence of peripheral neuropathy.
119  
The NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel members have added bortezomib as 
a maintenance therapy option for transplant -eligible as well as transplant -
ineligible patients.  
 
 
Maintenance Regimens Useful in Certain Circumstances  
Bortezomib/Lenalidomide  Patients with high- risk cytogenetics have been shown to benefit from a 
combination of PI and IMiD as maintenance therapy.189,190 The study by 
Joseph et al of patients (n = 1000) with newly diagnosed MM treated with 
lenalidomide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone induction therapy and risk -
adapted maintenance showed that early transplantation and maintenance 
with doublet therapy (lenali domide plus bortezomib) improves outcomes 
for those with  high- risk myeloma.190 
Carfilzomib/ Lenalidomide as Maintenance  
Patients enrolled in the FORTE trial (described above) were randomized 
to receive carfilzomib/lenalidomide maintenance therapy or lenalidomide 
alone as maintenance therapy.191 After a median duration of follow -up of 
37 months, 3- year PFS was 75% in the carfilzomib/lenalidomide group 
versus 65% in the lenalidomide alone group (HR , 0.64;  95% CI , 0.44–
0.94;  P = .023). Most common grade 3– 4 adverse events in the 
carfilzomib/lenalidomide group v ersus the lenalidomide group included 
neutropenia (20% vs . 23%), infections (5% vs . 7%), and vascular events 
(7% vs . 1%), with one treatment -related adverse event leading to death in 
the carfilzomib/lenalidomide group.191 
The NCCN P anel has included carfilzomib/lenalidomide maintenance 
therapy as an option useful in certain circumstances for transplant -eligible 
candidates.  
Daratumumab with or without Lenalidomide as Maintenance Therapy 
After Autologous HCT  
The second randomization of the CASSIOPEIA trial (results of first 
randomization described above) compared daratumumab maintenance for 
up to 2 years with observation following primary therapy with  
bortezomib/thalidomide/dexamethasone in transplant -eligible patients with 
newly diagnosed MM.192 At a median follow -up of 35.4 months from the 
second randomization, the primary endpoint of PFS was not reached in 
the daratumumab v ersus 46.7 months in the observation- only group (HR PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-30 0.53; 95% CI, 0.42– 0.68; P < .0001). The most common grade 3 or 4 
adverse events in the daratumumab maintenance group included 
lymphopenia (4%), hypertension (3%), and neutropenia (2%). Serious 
adverse events were more common in the daratumumab group (23% vs . 
19%), with two treatment -related deaths in the daratumumab group. 192  
In the randomized, phase II GRIFFIN study described in a section above, 
daratumumab in combination with lenalidomide, bortezomib, and 
dexamethasone, followed by maintenance therapy with daratumumab and 
lenalidomide was compared to lenalidomide, bortezomib, and 
dexamethasone followed by maintenance therapy with lenalidomide alone, 
in newly diagnosed, transplant -eligible patients with MM. The addition of 
daratumumab to primary therapy, followed by daratumumab/lenalidomide 
maintenance therapy , led to deep and durable responses including high 
rates of sCR and MRD  negativity.86  
The NCCN P anel has added daratumumab alone (based on the 
CASSIOPEIA trial data) and daratumumab with lenalidomide 
maintenance therapy (based on the GRIFFIN trial data) as options useful 
in certain circumstances after autologous HCT.  
Ixazomib as Maintenance Therapy After Autologous HCT  
The TOURMALINE -MM3 trial studied 2 years of maintenance with 
ixazomib versus placebo in patients who had achieved at least a PR following induction therapy and a single autologous HCT. After a median 
follow- up of 31 months , a 28% reduction in median PFS was observed 
with ixazomib versus placebo (median PFS was 26.5 months vs . 21.3 
months; HR , 0.72; 95% CI , 0.58–0.89; P = .0023 ).
193 A subsequent 
analysis of the same study demonstrated a higher rate of deepening responses with ixazomib versus placebo maintenance therefore 
prolonging PFS.
194 The median PFS in patients with VGPR/PR was 26.2 
with ixazomib maintenance versus 18.5 months with placebo (HR , 0.636; 
P < .001).194   
The TOURMALINE -MM4 trial is similar to TOURMALINE -MM3, but 
examined patients who were not receiving transplant. The study randomized patients who were not undergoing transplant and had 
achieved at least a PR following standard induction therapy to receive 
either ixazomib maintenance therapy or placebo. The primary endpoint was PFS since time of randomization. The primary endpoint was met, with 
a median PFS of 17.4 months in the ixazomib group v ersus 9.4 months in 
the placebo group (HR, 0.659; 95% CI, 0.542– 0.801; P < .001). Grade 3 
treatment -related adverse events were more common with ixazomib 
(36.6%) than placebo (23.2%). The most common any grade adverse 
events included nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.195 While both 
TOURMALINE -MM3 and TOURMALINE -MM4 have demonstrated 
statistically significant improvement in PFS, the OS data for MM3 and 
MM4 have not demonstrated a statistically significant difference.196  
 
Based on the above data, the NCCN Panel has included ixazomib as a 
category 2B recommendation useful in certain circumstances maintenance 
option for both transplant -eligible and transplant -ineligible patients.  
Therapy for Previously Treated Multiple Myeloma  
A variety of therapies are available for previously treated or 
relapsed/refractory  MM. The choice of appropriate therapy for a specific 
patient depends on the context of clinical relapse such as prior treatment 
and duration of response. 
The therapeutic options  for previously treated MM include systemic 
therapy; autologous hematopoietic cell transplant ( HCT) for eligible 
patients who did not receive HCT as part of their initial treatment; or 
clinical trial. For those who had autologous HCT as part of initial treatment 
and had a durable response or had stable disease, consideration may be PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-31 given to a second transplantation at the time of relapse/disease 
progression.  As a general principle, if the relapse occurs at greater than 6 
months after completion of the initial primary therapy, patients may be retreated with the same primary regimen.  This however does not apply to 
HCT where a longer remission would be needed to justify another transplant.  
Preferred Regimens for Previously Treated Multiple Myeloma – After 
One to Three P rior Therapies  
For patients that are still sensitive to bortezomib and/or lenalidomide, any 
of the regimens listed below may be appropriate . Since , however, 
bortezomib- containing or lenalidomide- containing regimens are often 
given as induction therapy, and it is likely that at relapse the disease is 
refractory to these agents, especially if relapse is well within 6 months of 
primary treatment completion other combinations are preferred.  
The NCCN Panel has provided a list of regimens for bortezomib -refractory 
and lenalidomide- refractory disease after one to three prior therapies.  
Preferred Regimens for Bortezomib or Lenalidomide -Refractory 
Disease  
Daratumumab/ Carfilzomib/ Dexamethasone  
A phase 1b, open -label, non- randomized, multicenter trial first studied this 
regimen in patients (n= 82) with relapsed or refractory MM. At a median follow- up of 16 months, the overall response rate ( ORR) was 84%. In the 
overall treatment population, while the median progression free survival (PFS) was not reached, the 12- month and 18 -month PFS rates were 74% 
and 66%, respectively.197 In a multicenter, open- label phase 3 trial 
(CANDOR), the addition of daratumumab to carfilzomib plus 
dexamethasone showed deeper responses and improved PFS.198 This 
response has been shown to be maintained with longer follow up analyses 
of about 27 months. PFS was 28.6 months in the daratumumab group versus  15.2 months in the carfilzomib alone group ( Hazard ratio ( HR) HR, 
0.59; 95 CI , 0.45– 0.78; P < .0001).199 Based on the above data and the 
FDA approval, the NCCN Panel has included this regimen as a category 
1, preferred option for relapsed/refractory MM, for patients with relapsed or 
refractory MM.  
Isatuximab -irfc/C arfilzomib/ Dexamethasone  
A prospective, randomized, open label, phase 3 study (IKEMA) examined 
the utility of isatuximab/carfilzomib/dexamethasone vs 
carfilzomib/dexamethasone in 302 patients with relapsed/refractory MM 
who had received one to three prior lines of therapy (median two prior 
lines of therapy). Treatment was continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, with the primary endpoint being PFS. Median PFS 
was 35.7 months in the isatuximab/carfilzomib/dexamethasone group vs a 
median PFS of 19.15 months in the carfilzomib/dexamethasone group (HR 
0.53; 99% CI, 0.32- 0.89,  P = .0007). Grade 3 or higher treatment related 
adverse events occurred in 77% of patients in the isatuximab group vs 67% of patients in the control group. 
200 Based on this data, the  NCCN 
Panel has included isatuximab- irfc/carfilzomib/dexamethasone as a 
category 1, preferred regimen option for relapsed or refractory MM.  
Carfilzomib/ Pomalidomide/ Dexamethasone  
A phase II trial investigated carfilzomib/pomalidomide/dexamethasone 
followed by continuous pomalidomide/dexamethasone as second line therapy for relapsed/refractory MM in patients who had progression 
during lenalidomide maintenance therapy. Patients who were eligible for 
transplant and had not received it previously received HCT. On this 
regimen, 75% of patients had a VGPR, and 37% displayed CR. At 40-
months  of follow up, the median PFS was 26 months for patients who 
received therapy with HCT, and 17 months for patients who received 
carfilzomib/pomalidomide/dexamethasone therapy without HCT. The 
median OS was 67 months, with the most common grade 3 and 4 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-32 adverse events related to treatment including hematologic toxicity (41%), 
cardiovascular (6%) and respiratory (3%) events, and infections 
(17%).201 Based on th ese data, the NCCN Panel has included 
carfilzomib/pomalidomide/dexamethasone as a preferred regimen option 
for relapsed or refractory MM.  
Daratumumab/ Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone  
The combination of daratumumab/pomalidomide/dexamethasone was 
evaluated in an open- label, multicenter, phase 1b study (MMY1001). This 
study included patients (n = 103 patients) who had received at least two 
prior lines of therapy (excluding daratumumab or pomalidomide).202 At a 
median follow -up of 13.1 months, the ORR  was 60%. The median PFS 
and OS  were 8.8 and 17.5 months, respectively, and estimated survival at 
1 year was 66%.202 Toxicities reported were similar to those seen in other 
trials of pomalidomide and daratumumab, except for increase in 
neutropenia.202 
The open label phase III APOLLO trial randomly assigned patients  with 
relapsed/refractory disease and at least one previous line of therapy  
(n=304) to receive pomalidomide/dexamethasone or 
daratumumab/pomalidomide/dexamethasone. With a median follow up 
time of 16.9 months, there was a statistically significant improvement in 
the primary endpoint of PFS for the added daratumumab group (12.4 months vs 6.9 months, P  = .0018). Serious adverse events occurred in 
50% of patients in the daratumumab group compared to 39% of patients in the pomalidomide/dexamethasone group, the most common being 
pneumonia and lower respiratory tract infections.
203 
The MM -014 study evaluated 112 patients with relapsed/refractory MM 
who had previously been treated with lenalidomide and assigned them to 
a regimen containing daratumumab/pomalidomide/dexamethasone. The primary endpoint was ORR  which was achieved in 77.7% of patients in a median follow up of 17.2 months (median PFS was not reached at time of 
follow up). The most common adverse event of grade 3 or higher was 
infection, which developed in 31.3% of patients (13.4% with grade 3 or 
higher pneumonia).
204  
Based on the above data, the NCCN Panel has included daratumumab/pomalidomide/dexamethasone as a treatment option for 
patients with relapsed/refractory MM who have received one prior therapy 
including an IMiD and a PI.  
Isatuximab -irfc/pomalidomide/dexamethasone  
In an open -label, multicenter, phase III trial (ICARIA -MM), patients (n= 
307) with MM who had received at least two lines of prior therapy, 
including lenalidomide and a PI were randomized to receive 
pomalidomide/dexamethasone with or without isatuximab -irfc.
205  After a 
median follow -up of 12 months, a higher ORR (60% vs. 35%) and 
improved PFS (median 11.5 months vs. 6.5 months; HR , 0.6; 95% CI , 
0.44– 0.81) w ere reported in the isatuximab-
irfc/pomalidomide/dexamethasone arm. In a prespecified subgroup analysis of this study, the addition of isatuximab- irfc showed improved 
ORR and PFS in patients with renal impairment.
206 
The NCCN Panel has included isatuximab -
irfc/pomalidomide/dexamethasone as a category 1, preferred option for 
the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory MM after two prior 
therapies including lenalidomide and a PI.  
Ixazomib/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone  
In the phase I/II Alliance A061202 study (n=29), patients with 
lenalidomide/ PI refractory MM were treated with 
ixazomib/pomalidomide/dexamethasone-  with 51.7% of patients having a 
PR or better, a median PFS of 4.4 months, a median response duration PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-33 of 16.8 months, and a median OS of 34.3 months. Common adverse 
events included hematologic toxicity, and gastrointestinal events.207  
Another phase I/II study studied the safety and efficacy of 
ixazomib/pomalidomide/dexamethasone in patients who had multiple 
prior therapies, were refractory to lenalidomide alone, or were refractory 
to lenalidomide and bortezomib, or lenalidomide, bortezo mib, and 
carfilzomib.208 The ORR was 33% and 40% with two different doses of 
ixazomib.208  
Considering promising preliminary response rates, especially in patients 
refractory to both lenalidomide and a PI, the NCCN Panel has included 
ixazomib/pomalidomide/dexamethasone as a treatment option for 
patients with relapsed/refractory MM who have recei ved at least two prior 
therapies including an IMiD and a PI and have demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last therapy.  
Additional Preferred Regimens for Bortezomib- Refractory Disease:  
In addition to the regimens listed in the section above, the following two 
lenalidomide- containing regimens may be used for lenalidomide-sensitive 
or naïve and bortezomib- refractory disease.  
Daratumumab/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
In a multicenter, open -label phase 3 trial (POLLUX), patients (n= 569) 
with relapsed/refractory MM were randomized to receive 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone with or without daratumumab until disease 
progression or unacceptable toxicity.
209   
After a median follow -up of 13.5 months, daratumumab in combination 
with lenalidomide and dexamethasone was associated with better PFS and ORR compared with lenalidomide/dexamethasone alone. After a 
median follow -up of 25.4 months, a subsequent analysis reported that the 
higher ORR (92.9% v s. 76.4%, P < .001 ), and PFS (83% vs. 60% at 12 months; 68% vs. 41% at 24 months; HR 0.41, 95% CI 0.31 -0.53) was 
maintained in those who had received daratumumab.
209   
 The most common adverse events of grade 3 or 4 in patients treated with 
the daratumumab regimen versus lenalidomide/dexamethasone were 
neutropenia (51.9 vs. 37.0%), thrombocytopenia (12.7% vs. 13.5%), and 
anemia (12.4% vs. 19.6%). Daratumumab -associated infusion- related 
reactions (mostly grade 1 or 2) were reported in 47.7% of patients.  
With an extended follow- up of 3.5 years, the improvements in PFS and 
ORR continued to be maintained in patients treated with the daratumumab regimen ( PFS 16.7 vs. 7.1 months; HR, 0.31; 95%; CI, 0.25 -
0.40;  P < .0001).  In a subgroup of patients with one prior line of therapy, 
the median PFS was 27.0 months with daratumumab versus 7.9 months 
with daratumumab and lenalidomide (HR, 0.22; 95% CI, 0.15- 0.32;  P < 
.0001). The ORR rates for patients with one prior line of therapy for those receiving the daratumumab-r egimen was 92% compared with 74% in 
those receiving daratumumab/dexamethasone.
210 
 
Based on the above data, the NCCN Panel has added 
daratumumab/lenalidomide/dexamethasone as a category 1, preferred 
option for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory MM  
Carfilzomib/ Lenalidomide/ Dexamethasone  
The randomized, multicenter, phase III ASPIRE trial, studied the 
combination of lenalidomide and dexamethasone with or without 
carfilzomib in patients (n=792) with relapsed/refractory MM who had 
received one to three prior lines of therapy. The primary endpoint of the 
study was PFS. The results showed that addition of carfilzomib to 
lenalidomide and dexamethasone significantly improved PFS by 8.7 
months (26.3 months for the carfilzomib arm vs. 17.6 months for 
lenalidomide and low- dose dexamethasone; HR for progression or death, PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-34 0.69; 95% CI, 0.57– 0.83; P = .0001). The median duration of treatment 
was longer in the carfilzomib group (88.0 weeks vs. 57 weeks). The 
incidence of peripheral neuropathy was nearly identical in both arms 
(17%). Non- hematologic adverse effects (≥ grade 3) that were higher in 
the carfilzomib group compared with lenalidomide and dexamethasone included dyspnea (2.8% vs. 1.8%), cardiac failure (3.8% vs. 1.8%), and 
hypertension (4.3% and 1.8%) . There were fewer discontinuations due to 
side effects in the carfil zomib arm (15.3% vs. 17.7%). Patients in the 
carfilzomib arm reported superior health- related quality of life than those 
who received lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone.
211 
Based on the above data, the NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel has included 
the combination of carfilzomib with lenalidomide and dexamethasone as a 
category 1, preferred option for patients with relapsed/refractory MM.  
Additional Preferred Regimens for Lenalidomide refractory Disease  
In addition to the regimens listed in the section for bortezomib-  and 
lenalidomide refractory disease, the following bortezomib- containing 
regimens may be used for bortezomib- sensitive or naïve and 
lenalidomide- refractory disease.  
Daratumumab/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone 
A phase III trial showed that adding daratumumab to bortezomib and 
dexamethasone markedly improved outcomes for patients with 
recurrent/refractory MM.212 Patients (n = 498) were randomized to receive 
daratumumab/bortezomib/dexamethasone or bortezomib/dexamethasone. The ORR in the daratumumab arm was 82.9% compared to 63.2% in the 
control arm ( P < .001).
212 The rates of VGPR and CR were double in the 
daratumumab arm compared to the control arm (59.2% vs. 29.1%, P < 
.001 and 19.2% vs. 9.0%, P = .001, respectively). The 12- month estimated 
rate of PFS was significantly higher in the daratumumab arm compared to 
the control arm (60.7% vs. 26.9%).212 The most common grade 3 or 4 
adverse events reported in the daratumumab and control groups were thrombocytopenia (45.3% and 32.9%, respectively), anemia (14.4% and 
16.0%, respectively), and neutropenia (12.8% and 4.2%, respectively).212 
Grade 1 or 2 infusion- related reactions associated with daratumumab 
were reported in 45.3% of the patients in the daratumumab group and 
grade 3 in 8.6% of the patients. These infusion- related reaction rates are 
consistent with findings from previous trial s of daratumumab.213,214 
After a median follow -up of 40 months, patients receiving the 
daratumumab containing regimen demonstrated a 69% reduction in the 
risk of disease progression or death (median PFS, 16.7 months vs 
7.1 months; HR, 0.31; 95% CI, 0.25– 0.40;  P < .0001); showed 
significantly better ORR (85% vs 63%;  P < .0001).215 Patients who 
received one prior line of therapy demonstrated the greatest benefit with 
daratumumab (median PFS, 27.0 months vs 7.9 months; HR, 0.22; 95% CI, 0.15 –0.32;  P <.0001).  
Based on the above phase III data, the NCCN Panel has added 
daratumumab/bortezomib/dexamethasone as a category 1, preferred 
option for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory MM.  
Pomalidomide/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone  
A phase 3 open -label, multicenter, randomized, trial (OPTIMISMM)  
evaluated pomalidomide/bortezomib/dexamethasone (n=281)  versus 
bortezomib/dexamethasone in patients (n= 278) 
with relapsed or refractory  MM who previously received lenalidomide.
216 
After a median follow -up of 15.9 months, a significantly improved PFS was 
seen in the pomalidomide arm (median 11.20 months vs. 7.10 months; 
HR, 0.61; 95% CI, 0.49 –0.77; P < .0001). The most common grade 3/4 
treatment -related adverse events in the pomalidomide arm reported in this 
trial were neutropenia, infections, and thrombocytopenia.216 A post -hoc 
subgroup analysis of the OPTIMISSM trial evaluated outcomes in 226 
patients at first relapse that had only received one  prior line of therapy. 
Analyses were conducted by lenalidomide- refractory status, prior PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-35 bortezomib exposure, and prior HCT . There were statistically significant 
improvements in PFS in both lenalidomide refractory (17.8 vs 9.5 months, 
P = .0276) and lenalidomide non- refractory (22.0 vs 12.0 months, P = 
.0491) patients . There were also statistically significant improvements in 
PFS in patients who  had received prior bortezomib (17.8 vs . 12 months), 
and patients with (22 vs . 13.8 months) and without (16.5 vs 9.5 months) 
prior HCT. 217 
Based on the above data,  the NCCN Panel ha s included 
pomalidomide/bortezomib/dexamethasone as a category 1, preferred 
option preferred option for the treatment of patients with 
relapsed/refractory MM.  
Selinexor/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone  
 An ongoing phase 3, randomized open label trial (BOSTON) compared 
selinexor/bortezomib/dexamethasone with bortezomib/dexamethasone in 
patients with previously treated MM  (one to three prior lines of therapy, 
including PIs). Four hundred two patients were randomized to the 
selinexor/bortezomib/dexamethasone and 206 to the 
bortezomib/dexamethasone group. After a median follow up duration of 
13.2 months in the selinexor/bortezomib/dexamethasone group, the 
median PFS was 13.93 months compared to  a median follow up duration 
of 16.5 months and median PFS of 9.46 months in the bortezomib/dexamethasone group (HR 0.70; 95% CI, 0.53 – 0.93; 
P=.0075) . The most frequent adverse events of grade 3 -4 that were more 
common in the selinexor/bortezomib/dexamethasone group were 
thrombocytopenia (39% vs. 17%), fatigue (13% vs 1%), and anemia (16% 
vs 10%).
218 
Based on the above data the NCCN Panel has included once weekly 
selinexor in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone as a 
category 1, other recommended regimen option for previously treated MM  Elotuzumab/Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone  
In a phase II study, patients (n=117) with refractory/relapsed MM and refractory to lenalidomide and a PI were randomized to receive 
pomalidomide/dexamethasone or 
elotuzumab/pomalidomide/dexamethasone.
219 After a follow -up of 9.1 
months, the median PFS and ORR were both more than double with elotuzumab (PFS, 10.3 months vs. 4.7; ORR, 53% vs. 26%).
219 Median 
OS was also significantly improved with elotuzumab/pomalidomide/dexamethasone compared with 
pomalidomide/dexamethasone (29.8 months vs. 17.4 months; HR 0.59 
(95% CI, 0.37 to 0.93;  P = .0217).
220  
The NCCN Panel has included the combination of 
pomalidomide/dexamethasone/elotuzumab as an option for patients who 
have received at least two prior therapies  including an IMiD and a PI.  
Preferred  CAR T -Cell Therapies  for Relapse After One to Three P rior 
Therapies  
Other Recommended Regimens for Relapse A fter One to Three 
Prior Therapies  
Carfilzomib (twice weekly)/Dexamethasone  
The results of the phase III ENDEAVOR trial in patients with relapsed/refractory MM treated with multiple prior lines of therapy showed 
a two -fold improvement in median PFS with carfilzomib/dexamethasone 
compared to bortezomib/dexamethasone (18.7 months vs. 9.4 months; HR, 0.53;  P < .0001).
221 ORR was 77% in the carfilzomib group versus 
63% in the bortezomib group; rates of CR or better were 13% and 6% and rates of VGPR were 42% and 22%, respectively. The median duration of 
response was 21.3 months in the carfilzomib group and 10.4 months in the 
bortezomib group. Adverse events (grade  3 or higher) in the carfilzomib 
arm compared to the bortezomib arm included hypertension (6% vs. 3%), PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-36 anemia (12% vs. 9%), thrombocytopenia (10% vs. 14%), and dyspnea 
(5% vs. 2%). Rate of grade ≥2 peripheral neuropathy was 6% in the 
carfilzomib group and 32% in the bortezomib group.221 
The OS analysis showed that those treated with carfilzomib/ dexamethasone lived 7.6 months longer (median OS was 47.6 months in 
the carfilzomib group vs. 40 months in the bortezomib group; HR, 0.791 
[95% CI, 0.648 –0.964]; P = .010).
222 The most frequent grade 3 or worse 
adverse events in the carfilzomib arm compared to the bortezomib arm 
included hypertension (15% vs. 3%), anemia (16 % vs. 10%), dyspnea 
(6% vs. 2%), decreased lymphocyte count (6% vs. 2%), diarrhea (4% vs. 
9%), and peripheral neuropathy (1% vs. 6%).222 Rates of 
thrombocytopenia, pneumonia, and fatigue were similar in both groups.222   
Based on the above phase III data, the NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel 
has included the combination of carfilzomib (twice weekly) and 
dexamethasone as a category 1, preferred option for patients with 
relapsed/refractory MM.  
Elotuzumab/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
The FDA has approved elotuzumab in combination with lenalidomide and 
dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with MM who have received 
one to three prior therapies. This is based on the results of the phase III 
trial, ELOQUENT -2. The trial randomized 646 patients (1:1) to receive 
either elotuzumab in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone or lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone.
223  
The rates of PFS at the end of 1 and 2 years were higher for those 
receiving the elotuzumab -containing regimen (68% at 1 year and 41% at 2 
years) compared with those receiving lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone (57% at 1 year and 27% at 2 years).
223 Median PFS in the group 
receiving the elotuzumab -containing regimen was 19.4 months versus 
14.9 months in those receiving lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone (HR for progression or death in the elotuzumab group, 0.70; 95% CI, 
0.57– 0.85; P < .001) indicating a relative reduction of 30% in the risk of 
disease progression or death.223 Common grade 3 or 4 adverse events in 
both arms of the trial were lymphocytopenia, neutropenia, fatigue, and 
pneumonia. Infusion reactions occurred in 33 patients (10%) in the 
elotuzumab group and were grade 1 or 2 in 29 patients.223 
Consistent with the above findings, a subset analysis of 3- year follow -up 
reported a reduced risk of progression by 27% with the 
elotuzumab/lenalidomide/dexamethasone combination compared with 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone.224 
The final results of the ELOQUENT- 2 study have demonstrated that the 
addition of elotuzumab to lenalidomide/dexamethasone improved OS in patients with MM who received one to three  prior lines of therapy (48.3 
months vs . 39.6 months).
225  
Based on the above data and FDA approval the NCCN Panel has included 
elotuzumab in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone as a 
category 1 option for previously treated MM.  
Ixazomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
A double- blind, randomized, placebo- controlled, phase III TOURMALINE 
MM1 trial randomized 722 patients with relapsed and/or refractory MM to a 
combination of ixazomib plus lenalidomide and dexamethasone or 
lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone (control group). This trial was 
designed based on the promising results of a phase I/II study (discussed 
under Other Recommended Primary Therapy Regimens for Transplant 
Candidates . See nccn.org).106 
The results of the TOURMALINE MM1 trial show a significant 
improvement in PFS with the ixazomib- containing regimen. After a median 
follow- up of almost 15 months, a 35% improvement in PFS was seen in PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-37 the group treated with the ixazomib regimen compared with the control 
group (HR, 0.74; P = .01).226 Median PFS was 20.6 months in the 
ixazomib -treated group versus 14.7 months in the group receiving 
lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone. In the ixazomib- treated group 
versus the control group, the ORR (78% vs. 72%, P = .035) and CR 
(11.7% vs. 6.6%, P = .019) were also improved. Of note, patients with 
high- risk cytogenetics enrolled in the trial receiving ixazomib had a similar 
HR for PFS as the entire study population (HR, 0.596 and 0.543, 
respectively).226 Grade ≥3 adverse events were reported in 74% and 69% 
of patients in the ixazomib- treated and control groups, respectively. These 
included anemia (9% with ixazomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone vs. 13% 
with lenalidomide/dexamethasone), thrombocytopenia (19% v s. 9%), and 
neutropenia (23% vs. 24%).226 The addition of the 
ixazomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone group had a slightly higher rate of 
peripheral neuropathy compared to lenalidomide/dexamethasone (27% vs. 
22%).  
Based on the results of the phase III TOURMALINE MM1 trial226 the 
NCCN Panel has included ixazomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone as a 
category 1, preferred regimen option for previously treated MM after one 
to three  prior therapies.  
Bortezomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone  
The effects of adding an alkylating agent (such as cyclophosphamide) and 
a novel agent (such as lenalidomide or bortezomib) to dexamethasone 
have been investigated for patients with relapsed/refractory MM. The 
combination of bortezomib, dexamethasone, and cyclophosphamide was 
found to be effective in patients with relapsed/refractory MM with an 
acceptable toxicity profile.227,228 The NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel 
members have included bortezomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone as an other recommended regimen for relapsed/refractory MM after one to 
three  prior therapies.  Bortezomib/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
Data from preclinical studies showed lenalidomide sensitizes myeloma 
cells to bortezomib and dexamethasone. The results of phase I and phase 
II studies show that bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone is well tolerated and active, with durable responses in heavily pretreated patients 
with relapsed and/or refractory MM, including patients who have had prior
 
lenalidomide, bortezomib, thalidomide, and HCT.229,230 After a median 
follow- up of 44 months, the median PFS was 9.5 months and median OS 
was 30 months  (95% CI, 24 –37).230 The NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel 
members have included bortezomib/lenalidomide/dexamethasone as other 
recommended regimen for relapsed/refractory MM after one to three  prior 
therapies.  
Carfilzomib/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone  
Carfilzomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone has been shown to be well tolerated with the toxicity profile of carfilzomib being similar to that seen in 
other trials.
231  
A phase II trial (MUKfive) compared the safety and toxicity of 
carfilzomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone with 
bortezomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone in patients  with 
relapsed/refractory MM,  who had received one prior regimen.231 A higher 
proportion of patients receiving carfilzomib achieved VGPR or better  and 
was non- inferior to bortezomib. 
Carfilzomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone was well tolerated with the 
toxicity profile of carfilzomib being similar to that seen in other trials.231 
This study also included a maintenance phase and demonstrated a median PFS of 11.9 versus 5.6 months in favor of carfilzomib maintenance 
versus observation.  
Another phase II trial compared treatment with cyclophosphamide plus 
carfilzomib and dexamethasone to treatment with carfilzomib and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-38 dexamethasone in patients (n=197) with relapsed/refractory MM after 
one to three prior lines.232 After a median follow -up of 37 months, median 
PFS was 19.1 with the 3 -drug regimen compared to 16.6 months with the 
2-drug regimen ( P= .577).232 The combination of cyclophosphamide with 
carfilzomib and dexamethasone did not improve outcomes significantly 
compared with carfilzomib and dexamethasone alone in the overall 
population. However, in a sub- group analysis of the lenalidomide -
refractory population, the addition of cyclophosphamide to carfilzomib and dexamethasone resulted in a PFS benefit  of 18.4 versus  11.3 
months (HR , 1.7; 95% CI, 1.1–2.7; P = .043).
232  
The NCCN Panel has included 
carfilzomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone as treatment as an other 
recommended regimen for relapsed/refractory MM after one to three  prior 
therapies.  
Daratumumab/Cyclophosphamide/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone  
In the LYRA study,99 among the small cohort of patients with relapsed 
MM ( n = 14), after 4  cycles of induction therapy ORR was 12.3% and 
VGPR or better was seen in 57.1% of patients.99 The ORR after 4 
induction cycles was 71.4%. The median PFS was 13.3 months (95% CI, 
6.8–13.3). At 12‐ months, the OS rate was 54.5% (95% CI, 8.6% –
86.1%).99 
Based on this, the NCCN Panel has included 
daratumumab/ bortezomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone  as 
treatment option for relapsed/refractory MM.  
Elotuzumab/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone  
Numerous randomized trials have shown that three -drug combinations are 
consistently more effective than 2- drug combinations for the treatment of MM. A phase II trial studied the effect of addition of elotuzumab to 
bortezomib/dexamethasone in patients with relapsed/refractory MM.233 
Interim analysis results demonstrated a 28% reduction in risk of disease 
progression or death for patients in the elotuzumab- containing triple- drug 
arm compared to patients treated with bortezomib/dexamethasone (HR, 0.72; 70% CI, 0.59–0.88). Median PFS was  significantly higher in the 
elotuzumab -containing arm (9.7 months vs. 6.9 months). After 2 years the 
addition of elotuzumab continued to show an efficacy benefit compared to 
bortezomib/dexamethasone alone with a 24% relative risk reduction in 
PFS (HR, 0.7 6; 70% CI, 0.63–0.91).
233 
Based on the above phase II trial data, the NCCN Panel has included 
elotuzumab/bortezomib/dexamethasone as an other recommended 
regimen for relapsed/refractory MM after one to three prior therapies.  
Ixazomib/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone  
This regimen has been shown to be tolerable and efficacious in newly diagnosed patients.
95,234 A phase II study evaluated this regimen in the 
relapsed/refractory setting in patients with a median age of 63.5 years and found that it is well tolerated.  At a median follow- up of 15.2  months in the 
phase II study, median PFS was 14.2  months. The PFS trend with this 
regimen was better in patients aged 65 and older compared with those 
less than 65 years (median 18.7  months vs. 12.0 months; HR 0.62, 
P = .14).
235  The NCCN Panel has included this all oral regimen under the 
list of “other recommended regimens” for relapsed/refractory MM.  
Lenalidomide/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone 
A retrospective analysis to assess the efficacy of lenalidomide in 
combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone showed that this 
regimen is effective in heavily pre- treated patients with manageable 
adverse effects.236 The NCCN Panel has included 
cyclophosphamide/lenalidomide/dexamethasone  treatment as an other PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-39 recommended regimen for relapsed/refractory MM after one to three  prior 
therapies.  
Pomalidomide/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone 
A phase II study compared the combination of 
pomalidomide/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone to 
pomalidomide/dexamethasone in patients (n = 70) with relapsed/refractory 
MM who had received more than two prior therapies.237  
The triple- drug combination significantly improved the ORR (≥PR, 64.7% 
vs. 38.9%; P = .0355). The median PFS reported was 9.5 months versus 
4.4 months. There were no significant differences in adverse event reports 
between the treatment arms; grade 3 and 4 anemia, neutropenia, and 
thrombocytopenia, respectively, were reported in 11%, 31%,  and 6% of 
patients treated with pomalidomide/dexamethasone and 24%, 52%, and 15% of patients treated with the triplet regimen.
237 Similar results were 
reported by a single- center retrospective study of patients (n = 20) with 
relapsed/refractory MM who received 
pomalidomide/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone until transplant or 
disease.238 Response to the triple- drug regimen was 63%, with nearly half 
of patients (42%) after 1 cycle with a median time to response of 3 cycles. 
One- year median PFS was 80.7% and 65% of patients were relapse-
free.238 
Based on the above phase II trial data, the NCCN Panel has included 
pomalidomide/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone as other recommended  
treatment option for patients with relapsed/refractory MM who have 
received two prior therapies, including an IMiD and a PI and disease 
progression on/within 60 days of completion of last therapy.   Regimens Useful In Certain Circumstances for Previously Treated 
MM – Early Relapse ( one to three  prior therapies)  
Bortezomib/Liposomal Doxorubicin/Dexamethasone  
Bortezomib with liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) was approved by the FDA as 
a treatment option for patients with MM who have not previously received 
bortezomib and have received at least one prior therapy. The approval 
was based on a priority review of data fro m an international phase III trial 
(n = 646) showing that use of the combination significantly extended the median time to disease progression compared with bortezomib alone (9.3 
vs. 6.5 months).
239 Median duration of response was increased from 7.0 
months to 10.2 months with the combination therapy. Based on these results, the NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel considers bortezomib with the 
PLD regimen as a category 1 option that is useful in certain circumstances 
for patients with relapsed/refractory MM.  
Bortezomib/Dexamethasone  
The addition of dexamethasone to bortezomib in patients with relapsed/ 
refractory MM who had PD during bortezomib monotherapy resulted in 
improvement of response in 18% to 34% of patients.
240- 242 The NCCN 
Multiple Myeloma Panel members have included the bortezomib and 
dexamethasone regimen as an option that is useful in certain 
circumstances for patients with relapsed/refractory MM (category 1).  
Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
Lenalidomide combined with dexamethasone received approval from the FDA as a treatment option for patients with MM who had received at least 
one prior treatment. This was based on the results of two studies of a total 
of 692 patients randomized to receive dexamethasone either with or 
without lenalidomide. The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was 
TTP. A pre -planned interim analysis of both studies reported that the 
median TTP was significantly longer in the lenalidomide arm compared to 
the control g roup.
243,244 The updated clinical data from the pivotal North PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-40 American phase III trial (MM -009) in 353 previously treated patients with 
MM reported increased OS and median time to disease progression in 
patients receiving lenalidomide plus dexamethasone compared to patients 
receiving dexamethasone plus placebo.244 Similar results were seen in the 
international trial MM -010.243 Patients in both of these trials had been 
heavily treated before enrollment. Many had three or more prior lines of 
therapies with other agents and more than 50% of patients had undergone 
HCT.243,244 Most adverse events and grade 3/4 adverse events were more 
frequent in patients with MM who received the combination of 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone compared to placebo and dexamethasone. 
Thrombocytopenia (61.5%) and neutropenia (58.8%) were the most 
frequently reported adverse events observed. The NCCN Multiple 
Myeloma Panel now considers this regimen as a category 1 option that is 
useful in certain circumstances for patients with relapsed/refractory MM.  
Carfilzomib /Cyclophosphamide/ Thalidomide/ Dexamethasone:  
The results of the phase I/II trial showed that this 4- drug regimen is 
efficacious with an ORR of 91%, with 59 % achieving VGPR or greater 
after 4 cycles in patients with MM.245 The PFS and OS at 24 months 
(median 17.5 months) was 76% and 96%, respectively.245 This regimen 
has now been included under the list of regimens “useful in certain 
circumstances” for relapsed/refractory MM.   
Carfilzomib (weekly)/dexamethasone  
In the phase III A.R.R.O.W. trial, patients (n = 578) with relapsed and 
refractory MM previously treated with two or three treatments, including PI and IMiD were randomly assigned (1:1) to receive carfilzomib once a week 
(70 mg/m2) or twice a week (27 mg/m2). All patients received 
dexamethasone. The media PFS was higher in the once weekly (11.2 
months) compared with those who received twice weekly carfilzomib (7. 6 
months; HR 0.69, 95% CI 0.54 -0.83; P=.0029).  The overall safety was 
comparable between the two groups.246 The NCCN panel has included this combination on  the list of regimens “useful in certain circumstances” 
for relapsed/refractory MM.  
Selinexor/daratumumab/dexamethasone  
A phase Ib/II trial assessed the safety and efficacy of adding 
daratumumab to selinexor dexamethasone. Patients (n=34) enrolled in the trial had received three  or more prior lines of therapy, including a PI and 
an IMiD. In daratumumab naïve patients, the ORR was 73%, with 11 VGPR , and 11 PR . The median PFS was 12.5 months. This regimen has 
been included under the list of regimens useful in certain circumstances for relapsed/refractory MM.   
Selinexor/ Carfilzomib/ Dexamethasone  
In a study of 32 patients who had received a median of four prior therapies 
were assigned to receive once weekly selinexor, carfilzomib, and dexamethasone. The ORR  was 78% with a median PFS of 15 months. 
The most common grade 3 or higher treatment -related adverse events 
were thrombocytopenia (47%), nausea (6%), anemia (19%), and fatigue 
(9%).
247 
Another analysis of a subset of this patient population that had triple class 
refractory MM also showed an ORR of 66.7% with a median PFS of 13.8 
months, and median OS of 33 months.248 
This regimen has now been included under the list of regimens “useful in 
certain circumstances” for relapsed/refractory MM.    
Venetoclax/ Dexamethasone with or without Daratumumab or PI for 
t(11;14) Patients  
A phase I study of patients (n=66) with relapsed/refractory MM who 
received a median of 5 prior lines of therapy studied venetoclax 
monotherapy and reported an ORR in 21% of patients with the response rate being higher in patients (n=30) with t(11;14) compared with those PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-41 without t(11:14) (40% vs . 6%).249 Similar higher response rates have been 
found in patients with t(11:14) in real -world experience as well.250 An open 
label phase I/II  study examined venetoclax/dexamethasone in heavily 
pretreated t(11;14) patients. In this phase II part of the study, patients had 
received a median of 5 prior lines of therapy. At a median follow -up of 9.2 
months, the ORR was 48%, with a median TTP of 10.8 months.251  
Several prospective trials have reported on the efficacy and tolerability of 
venetoclax/dexamethasone containing combination regimens in relapsed 
t(11;14) MM.   A phase I  study found that venetoclax/dexamethasone in 
combination with daratumumab with or without bortezomib produced high 
rates of durable responses in patients with relapsed or refractory MM with 
t(11;14) translocation.252 
In patients with no prior treatment with carfilzomib, venetoclax/dexamethasone plus carfilzomib was found to be safe and 
efficacious especially in those with t(11;14) translocations.
253 This finding 
has been supported by case studies.254 
The NCCN Panel had included venetoclax/dexamethasone with or without 
daratumumab or a PI as options for patients with t(11:14) translocation.  
Pomalidomide/Dexamethasone  
Pomalidomide, like lenalidomide, is an analogue of thalidomide. It 
possesses potent immunomodulatory and significant anti -myeloma 
properties.255  
A phase III, multicenter, randomized, open- label study (MM -003) 
conducted in Europe compared the efficacy and safety of pomalidomide 
and low -dose dexamethasone (n = 302) versus high- dose dexamethasone 
(n = 153) in patients with relapsed MM who were refract ory to both 
lenalidomide and bortezomib.256 After a median follow -up of 10 months, 
PFS, the primary endpoint of the study, was significantly longer in patients who received pomalidomide and low -dose dexamethasone compared with 
those who received high- dose dexamethasone (4 months vs. 1.9 months; 
HR, 0.45; P < .0001).256 The median OS was significantly longer in the 
patients who received pomalidomide and low -dose dexamethasone as 
well (12.7 months vs. 8.1 months; HR, 0.74; P  = .0285).256 The most 
common hematologic grade 3 and 4 adverse effects found to be higher 
with the low- dose dexamethasone compared with the high- dose 
dexamethasone were neutropenia and pneumonia.256 Other phase III 
studies of pomalidomide plus low -dose dexamethasone in combination 
with other agents (eg, bortezomib) are currently ongoing (Clinical Trial ID: NCT01734928). A European multicenter, single- arm, open -label, phase 
IIIb trial evaluated the saf ety and efficacy of pomalidomide and low -dose 
dexamethasone in a large patient population (N = 604).
257 The median 
PFS reported was 4.2 months and OS was 11.9 months. Whether the patients received prior lenalidomide or bortezomib, the PFS, OS, and ORR 
reported were similar.
257 The results of this trial are consistent with those 
observed in the pivotal MM -003 trial.256 
In addition, several complementary phase II studies have been published 
evaluating the use of pomalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with MM relapsed/refractory to lenalidomide and/or bortezomib. A phase II 
study investigated two different dose regimens of pomalidomide and 
dexamethasone in 84 patients with advanced MM. Pomalidomide (4 mg) 
was given orally on days 1 to 21 or continuously over a 28- day cycle, and 
dexamethasone (40 mg) was given orally once weekly.
258 ORR was 35% 
and 34% for patients in the 21- day and 28 -day groups, respectively. With 
a median follow -up of 23 months, median duration of response, PFS, and 
OS were 7.3, 4.6, and 14.9 months across both groups, respectively. All 
patients experienced similar adverse events in both groups. The adverse 
events were primarily due to myelosuppression.258 Another phase II trial 
evaluated two doses of pomalidomide 2 or 4 mg/day with dexamethasone 
40 mg weekly in heavily pre- treated patients (n = 35).259 The ORR in the 2 -PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-42 mg cohort was 49% versus 43% in the 4 -mg cohort. OS at 6 months was 
78% and 67% in the 2-  and 4- mg cohort, respectively. Myelosuppression 
was the most common toxicity.259 
The FDA has approved pomalidomide for patients with MM who have 
received at least two prior therapies including lenalidomide and 
bortezomib and have demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 
days of completion of the last therapy. The FDA -recommended dose and 
schedule of pomalidomide is 4 mg orally on days 1 to 21 of repeated 28-day cycles with cycles repeated until disease progression along with the 
recommendation to monitor patients for hematologic toxicities, especially 
neutropenia.  
Based on the above data, the NCCN Panel has included pomalidomide 
plus dexamethasone as a therapeutic option in patients who have 
received at least two prior therapies, including an IMiD and a PI, and have 
demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of 
the last therapy (category 1).  
Selinexor /Pomalidomide/ Dexamethasone  
An abstract presented at the 2021 ASCO Annual Meeting presented data 
from an ongoing phase I/II clinical trial that  contains one arm evaluating 
the regimen of selinexor/pomalidomide/dexamethasone (NCT02343042). 
Sixty -five patients were enrolled initially in phase I  with a median of three  
prior lines of therapy . After determining a recommended phase II dose, it 
was administered to 20 patients. Among these patients, the ORR was  
65% and the median PFS was not reached in a median follow up of 3.9 
months.
260 Based on the above data, the NCCN Panel has included 
selinexor/pomalidomide/dexamethasone as a therapeutic option in 
patients who have received at least two prior therapies, including an IMiD 
and bortezomib, and have demonstrated disease progression on or  within 
60 days of completion of the last therapy (category 1).  Daratumumab 
Daratumumab is a human IgG kappa monoclonal antibody that targets the 
CD38 surface protein on myeloma cells.213 In a phase I/II study, patients 
who had received more than three lines of therapy including an IMiD and a PI or were double refractory to PI and IMiD were randomized to two 
different doses of daratumumab (8 mg/kg vs. 16 mg/kg).  Findings from 
106 patients who received 16 mg/kg noted an  ORR of 29.2% in 31 
patients (3 sCR, 10 VGPR, and 18 PR). The median duration of response 
was 7.4 months and median TTP was 3.7 months. The estimated 1- year 
OS rate was 65%.
214 Adverse events reported were fatigue (39.6%), 
anemia (33.0%), nausea (29.2%), and thrombocytopenia (25.5%). Grade 
1 and 2 infusion- related reactions were seen in 42.5% of patients, mainly 
during first infusion. No patients discontinued the study due to infusion -
related reactions.214  
Based on the above phase II results and FDA approval, the p anel has 
added daratumumab as an option for the treatment of patients with MM 
who have received at least three prior lines of therapy including a PI and 
an IMiD or who are double refractory to a PI and IMiD.  
DCEP and VTD -PACE for Aggressive MM  
Patients with an aggressive relapse may need multi -drug combinations 
such as DCEP,261- 263 TD-PACE (thalidomide, dexamethasone, cisplatin, 
doxorubicin, high- dose  cyclophosphamide, and etoposide),264,265 and 
VTD-PACE (bortezomib, thalidomide, dexamethasone, cisplatin, 
doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and etoposide)266- 268 for effective disease 
control.  
Preferred Regimens for Relapse After Four P rior Therapies  
Currently there are three  bispecific antibodies (elranatamab -bcmm, 
talquetamab -tgvs, and teclistamab- cqyv) and two chimeric antigen 
receptor ( CAR)  T-cell therapies (i decabtagene vicleucel  and 
ciltacabtagene autoleucel) approved by the FDA and included as preferred PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-43 options by the NCCN P anel for relapsed/refractory MM after at least four  
prior therapies including an anti -CD38 monoclonal antibody, a PI, and an 
IMiD.  
Bispecific Antibodies:  
Elranatamab -bcmm : Elranatamab -bcmm is a bispecific T -cell engager 
(BiTE)  that binds CD3 on T cells and to B -cell maturation antigen (BCMA ) 
on myeloma cells . In the phase II, MagnetisMM -3 trial, patients with 
relapsed/refractory MM received subcutaneous elranatamab once 
weekly.269 The primary population in whom the efficacy was seen were 
patients (n= 123) without prior BCMA -directed therapy. The findings 
indicated an ORR of 61.0% (75/123) and 35.0% greater than or equal to 
CR. Fifty responders switched to biweekly dosing, and 40 of  those (80.0%) 
improved or maintained their response for ≥ 6 months. Common adverse 
events reported were infections, cytokine release syndrome, anemia, and 
neutropenia. With biweekly dosing, grade 3 –4 adverse events decreased 
from 58.6% to 46.6%.269  
Talquetamab- tgvs: Talquetamab is a T cell redirecting bispecific antibody 
targeting both GPRC5D  and CD3 on T cells . In the single- arm, open- label, 
multicenter trial, MMY1001 (MonumenTAL -1) patients (n=187) who had 
previously received at least four prior systemic therapies received 
talquetamab -tgvs subcutaneously weekly or talquetamab -tgvs biweekly 
until disease progress ion or unacceptable toxicity.270The most common 
adverse reactions reported with weekly and biweekly dosing  were cytokine release syndrome (in 77% and 80% of the patients, respectively), skin-related events (in 67% and 70%), and dysgeusia (in 63% and 
57%).
270  
Teclistamab- cqyv: Teclistamab -cqyv, similar to elranatamab -bcmm, is a 
BiTE that binds to CD3 on T cells and BCMA on myeloma cells.   A phase 
I/II study examined the T -cell-redirecting bispecific antibody teclistamab-
cqyv in 165 patients who had triple class refractory disease, with a median of five prior lines of therapy. 
271 After a median follow up of 14.1 months, the ORR was 63% and 39.4% of patients demonstrated a CR or better. 
The median PFS was 11.3 months, with a median response duration of 18.4 months. Common adverse events included cytokine release 
syndrome in 72.1% of patients (0.6% grade 3) and grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity including neutropenia (64.2%), anemia (37%), and 
thrombocytopenia (21.2%). Infections were also common, with grade 3 or 
4 infection occurring in 44.8% of patients.  
CAR T -Cell Therapies:  
Idecabtagene vicleucel : Idecabtagene vicleucel is a BCMA -directed CAR -
T cell therapy. In a phase II study (n=128) patients with relapsed and 
refractory MM who had received at least three prior regimens (including a 
PI, an IMiD, and an anti -CD38 antibody) received idecabtagene vicleucel. 
Patients had received a median of 6 previous regimens for MM and 94% 
had received HCT.  In this population of heavily pretreated patients, after a median 13 months follow up, 73% of patients demonstrated response, with 33% having a CR or better. The median time to response was 1 month 
and median time to a CR or better was 2.8 months. High response rates 
(> 50%) were found in several examined subgroups including older 
patients, patients with high- risk cytogenetic abnormalities , penta -refractory 
disease, and high tumor burden. Adverse events at grade 3 or 4 were 
common and included neutropenia (91%), anemia (70%), and 
thrombocytopenia (63%). Twenty eight patients were retreated with 
idecabtagene vicleucel following disease progr ession and 21% 
demonstrated a second response. Grade 3 or 4 adverse events were 
common and were reported in 99% of patients. The most common 
adverse events were related to hematologic toxicity such as neutropenia 
(89%), anemia (60%), and thrombocytopenia ( 52%). Infections (69%) and 
cytokine release syndrome (84%) were also common treatment related adverse events, although the incidence of grade 3 or higher cytokine 
release syndrome was lower (5%).
272 The NCCN Panel has included 
idecabtagene vicleucel as an option for patients who have received at PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-44 least four prior therapies, including an anti -CD38 monoclonal antibody, a 
PI, and an IMiD.  
Ciltacabtagene autoleucel: Ciltacabtagene autoleucel is another BCMA  
directed CAR T -cell therapy.  The CARTITUDE -1 trial (n=97) was an open 
label phase Ib/II study that looked to assess the safety and efficacy of 
ciltacabtagene autoleucel in patients with relapsed or refractory MM who 
had received three  or more previous lines of therapy (including an IMiD, 
PI, and andti -CD38 antibody).273 The median amount of prior therapies 
was six. After a median 12.4 months of follow up, the ORR was 97%,  with 
67% of patients achieving sCR. The PFS rate was 77% with an 89% OS 
rate. Adverse events included neutropenia in 95% of patients and anemia 
in 68%. Other common adverse events included thrombocytopenia (60%), leukopenia (61%), and lymphopenia (50%). Cytokine release syndrome 
also occurred in 95% of patients. There were six deaths due to treatment related adverse events.
273 A follow up analysis at 18 months showed that 
responses were durable; 18-month PFS and OS rates were 66.0% and 
80.9% respectively, with no new observed safety signals .274 
 
Other Recommended Regimens for Relapse A fter Three Prior 
Therapies  
Bendamustine  
In a trial by Knop and colleagues, 31 patients who had experienced 
relapse after autologous transplantation were enrolled to receive 
increasing doses of bendamustine.275 The ORR was 55%, with a median 
PFS of 26 weeks for all patients and 36 weeks for patients who received 
higher doses of bendamustine (90– 100 mg/m2). The toxicity was mild and 
mainly hematologic. A retrospective analysis of 39 patients has reported that bendamustine is effective and tolerable in patients with advanced 
progressive MM, with an ORR of 36%.
276 
 The ECOG studied treatment with high- dose cyclophosphamide in 
patients with poor -risk features who had disease that was refractory to 
prior chemotherapy.277 The ORR reported was 43% (29% response rate in 
patients refractory to prior therapy with cyclophosphamide).277 
Bendamustine is currently a treatment option for relapsed/refractory MM.  
Bendamustine/Bortezomib/Dexamethasone  
A phase II study evaluated bendamustine/bortezomib/dexamethasone administered over six 28 -day cycles and then every 56 days for 6 more 
cycles in patients (n = 75; median age 68 years) with relapsed/refractory 
MM treated with multiple prior therapies and not refractory to bortezomib. 
The PR rate was 71.5% (16% CR, 18.5% VGPR, 37% partial remission). 
At 12 -month follow -up, median TTP was 16.5 months, and 1 -year OS was 
78%.
278 
Bendamustine/carfilzomib/dexamethasone  
A multicenter trial evaluated combination therapy with 
bendamustine/carfilzomib/and dexamethasone in 63 patients with 
relapsed/refractory MM (with at least two  lines of prior therapy). Fifty two 
percent  of patients achieved a PR  or better and 32% achieved a VGPR  or 
better. After a median follow up of 22 months, the median PFS was 11.6 
months with a median OS of 30.4 months. The most common adverse 
events of grade 3 or higher included lymphopenia (29%), neutropenia 
(25%), and thrombocytopenia (22%).279 The NCCN Panel has included 
carfilzomib in combination with bendamustine and dexamethasone as a 
treatment option for relapsed/refractory MM.  
Bendamustine/Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone  
A multicenter phase I/II trial investigated the combination of bendamustine, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone as treatment for patients (n = 29) with 
relapsed/refractory MM.
280 PR was seen in 52% (n = 13) of patients, with 
VGPR in 24% (n = 6) of patients. The median PFS in the trial was 6.1 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-45 months (95% CI, 3.7 –9.4 months), and the one -year PFS rate was 20% 
(95% CI, 6% –41%).280 The NCCN Panel has included lenalidomide in 
combination with bendamustine and dexamethasone as a treatment option 
for relapsed/refractory MM.  
High Dose or Fractionated Cyclophosphamide  
Studies have reported that high- dose cyclophosphamide or 
hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide is efficacious particularly in patients 
needing immediate disease control who have received multiple prior 
treatments.281,282 Therefore the NCCN Panel has included h igh dose or 
fractionated cyclophosphamide as an option for relapsed/refractory MM.  
Selinexor/ Dexamethasone:  
Selinexor in combination with dexamethasone was studied in a phase IIb 
trial (STORM) in patients with relapsed/refractory MM.283  The patients in 
the trial had multiple prior therapies and were refractory to IMIDs (lenalidomide and pomalidomide), PIs (bortezomib and carfilzomib), and 
the CD38 antibody daratumumab.  A total of 122 patients were included in 
the intent -to-treat popula tion. PR or better was observed in 26% of 
patients (95% CI, 19 - 35 with  sCR in 2%, VGPR in 5%, and PR in 20% of 
the patients.  
The most common adverse events reported during treatment were 
thrombocytopenia in 73% of the patients, fatigue in 73%, nausea in 72%, 
and anemia in 67%.  
Based on the above results, the NCCN Panel has included 
selinexor/dexamethasone under other recommended options for patients 
with relapsed/refractory MM who have received at least four prior 
therapies and whose disease is refractory to at least two PI , at least two 
immunomodulatory agents, and an anti -CD38 monoclonal antibody.
247 Regimens Useful in Certain Circumstances for Relapse After Four  
Prior Therapies  
Belantamab Mafodotin- blmf 
Belantamab mafodotin- blmf is a  BCM A antibody, conjugated to a 
microtubule disrupting agent — monomethyl auristatin—via a stable, 
protease resistant linker. It is the first in its class. In the open- label phase II 
trial (DREAMM -2), belantamab mafodotin was evaluated in patients whose 
MM was r efractory to multiple agents. Responses were seen in 
approximately one- third of patients.284 The most common grade 3/4 
adverse events in the safety population were keratopathy, 
thrombocytopenia, and anemia.284 
In November 2022,  it was announced that belantamab mafodotin- blmf is 
being withdrawn as it did not meet the primary end point of having a 
superior PFS compared to pomalidomide/dexamethasone in the 
DREAMM -3 trial (HR 1.03; 95% CI, 0.72 –1.47). The PFS with belantamab 
mafodot in-blmf was 11.2  months compared with 7 months for 
pomalidomide plus dexamethasone, however this was not statistically 
significant.  Since, patients already receiving belantamab mafodotin- blmf 
and those enrolled on the FDA Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy 
(REMS) program have been able to continue to receive the drug through 
a compassionate use program .  There are other ongoing trials with 
belantamab mafodotin- blmf, the NCCN Panel has included this as an 
option useful in certain circumstance for those after 4 prior therapies  
(including a PI, an IMiD, and an anti -CD38 monoclonal antibody).  
Supportive Care for Multiple Myeloma  
Important advances have been made in adjunctive treatment/supportive 
care of patients with MM. This involves careful patient education about the 
probable side effects of each drug, the drug combinations being used, and 
the supportive care measures required . Supportive care can be PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-46 categorized into those measures required for all patients and those that 
address specific drugs.  
Bony manifestations in the form of diffuse osteopenia and/or osteolytic lesions develop in 85% of patients with MM. Related complications are the 
major cause of limitations in quality of life and performance status in 
patients with MM. A large, double- blind, randomized trial has shown that 
monthly use of IV pamidronate (a bisphosphonate) can decrease pain and bone- related complications, improve performance status, and, importantly, 
preserve quality of life in patients with Durie- Salmon stage III MM and at 
least one lytic lesion.
285,286 Zoledronic acid has equivalent benefits.287 
Results from the study conducted by Zervas et al288 show a 9.5- fold 
greater risk for the development of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) with 
zoledronic acid compared to pamidronate. Patients who are on 
bisphosphonates should have their renal function monitored. They should 
have a dental exam prior to the start of bisphosphonate therapy and 
should be monitored for ONJ.  
The Medical Research Council (MRC) Myeloma IX study examined effects 
of zoledronic acid versus clodronate (a bisphosphonate not currently FDA 
approved) in patients with MM initiating chemotherapy regardless of bone 
disease. The patients were randomized to receive zoledronic acid (n = 
981) or clodronic acid (n = 979). Zoledronic acid was reported to reduce 
mortali ty and significantly improve PFS.289 Patients on clodronate and 
zoledronic acid had similar occurrence of acute renal failure and treatment -related serious adverse events. Zoledronic acid was associated 
with higher rates of ONJ than was clodronic acid.
290 An extended follow- up 
(median, 5.9 years) of the MRC Myeloma IX showed significant 
improvement in OS (52 vs. 46 months; HR, 0.86; P = .01) compared with 
clodronic acid.291 The long- term rates of ONJ were also observed to be 
higher with zoledronic acid compared with clodronate (3.7% vs. 0.5%; 
P=.0001).291 A recent meta -analysis of 20 randomized controlled trials comparing 
bisphosphonates with either placebo or a different bisphosphonate as a comparator concluded that adding bisphosphonates to the treatment of 
MM reduces vertebral fractures and probably reduces pain.
292 It did not 
find a particular bisphosphonate to be superior to another.292 In a 
multicenter trial (CALGB 70604), patients with MM or bone metastases 
from a solid malignancy were randomly assigned to zoledronic acid 
either monthly  or every 3 months for 2 years.293 The rates of skeletal -
related events  (SRE)  were similar in both arms. Among the 278 patients 
with MM, rates of SRE were 26% in those receiving monthly versus 21% 
in those receiving treatment every 3 months.293 
A large, placebo- controlled, randomized trial compared denosumab with 
zoledronic acid in patients (n = 1718) with newly diagnosed MM with bone 
lesions. Time to first  SRE and OS w ere similar in both arms. The 
denosumab arm had lower rates of renal toxicity and higher rates of hypocalcemia. ONJ was slightly higher in the denosumab arm (3% vs. 2%) 
but not statistically significant.
294 
The NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma recommend bisphosphonates 
(category 1) or denosumab for all patients receiving therapy for 
symptomatic MM regardless of documented bone disease. Denosumab is 
preferred by the NCCN Panel in patients with renal diseas e. The NCCN 
Panel recommends a baseline dental exam and monitoring for ONJ in all patients receiving a bone -modifying agent and monitoring for renal 
dysfunction with use of bisphosphonate therapy.  With respect to duration 
of therapy, the panel also recommends continuing bone- targeting 
treatment (bisphosphonates or denosumab) for up to 2 years and continuing beyond 2 years would be based on clinical judgement. The 
frequency of dosing (monthly vs. every 3 months) would depend on the 
individual patient criteri a and response to therapy.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-47 Excess bone resorption from bone disease can lead to excessive release 
of calcium into the blood, contributing to hypercalcemia. Symptoms 
include polyuria and gastrointestinal disturbances, with progressive 
dehydration and decreases in glomerular filtration rate. Hypercalcemia 
should be treated with hydration, bisphosphonates, denosumab,294 
steroids, and/or calcitonin. Among the bisphosphonates (zoledronic acid, pamidronate, and ibandronate), the NCCN Multiple Myeloma Panel 
members prefer zoledronic acid for treatment of hypercalcemia.
287,295,296 
The NCCN P anel has provided general principles of palliative RT  for 
patients with MM. Careful planning of the  radiation field and radiation 
technique is important  to minimize toxicity to the spinal cord, brain, bone 
marrow, and  adjacent organs at risk ( OAR ) as patients with MM may be 
treated multiple times during their disease course.  The panel has noted 
that initiation of s ystemic therapy should not be delayed for RT and can 
often be given concurrently  and that patients should be carefully 
monitored for t oxicities.297,298 Low-dose RT (8 Gy x 1 fraction) or 20 –30 
Gy in 5 –10 total fractions can be used as palliative treatment for 
uncontrolled pain, for impending pathologic  fracture, or for impending 
cord compression. Moderately fractionated courses of 20 -25 Gy in 8- 10 
fractions are generally preferred over higher doses (30  Gy) absent 
extenuating circumstances (e.g., severe symptomatic cord compression) 
to limit unnecessary toxicity and reduce risk of future treatment of  
adjacent or overlapping OAR  (e.g., spinal cord).299 For RT dose 
constraint suggestions regarding bone marrow and other OAR, see 
NCCN Guidelines for Hodgkin Lymphoma .  
Plasmapheresis should be used as adjunctive therapy for symptomatic hyperviscosity.
300 Institutions differ in their use of plasmapheresis for 
adjunctive treatment of renal dysfunction.  
Erythropoietin therapy may be considered for anemic patients, especially 
those with renal failure. Measuring endogenous erythropoietin levels may also be helpful in treatment planning301,302 (see NCCN Guidelines for 
Prevention and Treatment of Cancer -Related Infections ). Daratumumab 
can interfere with cross -matching and RBC antibody screening. The 
NCCN Panel recommends performing type and screen prior to receiving 
daratumumab to inform future matching.  
The highest risk for venous thromboembolism ( VTE) is in the first 6 
months following new diagnosis of MM . The NCCN Panel has outlined 
management of VTE, risk stratification, and VTE prophylaxis  in a separate 
section in the NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma (see nccn.org) and 
VTE prophylaxis is administered to all patients,  assuming there are no 
contraindications to anticoagulation agents or anti -platelets (see NCCN 
Guidelines for Cancer -Associated Venous Thromboembolic Disease).  
 
To prevent infections in patients with MM, the panel recommends referring 
to the NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Cancer -Related 
Infections , the CDC recommendations for CDC for Use of COVID -19 
Vaccines in the US, and in the most recent update, the panel has outlined 
recommendations for prophylaxis and management of infections in 
patients undergoing treatment with CAR T -cell and bispecific ant ibody.  
Management of Renal Disease in Multiple Myeloma 
In patients with MM and monoclonal gammopathies, renal disease usually results from the production of monoclonal immunoglobulin or light/heavy 
chains by a clonal proliferation of plasma cells or B cells. Renal disease is 
seen in 20% to 50% of patients with MM and has been observed to 
negatively affect outcomes.
303- 305 The NCCN Panel has added a new page 
outlining management of renal disease in MM.  
Renal insufficiency defined as elevated serum creatinine greater than 2 mg/dL or established glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) less than 60 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-48 mL/min/1.73 m2 in patients with MM is usually due to light chain cast 
nephropathy, but other etiologies need to be considered including 
hypercalcemia, volume depletion, and hyperuricemia as well as 
nephrotoxic medications or IV contrast. In addition, concomitant 
amyloid osis and monoclonal immunoglobulin deposition should be 
suspected when renal insufficiency or albuminuria is present without high levels of light chains.  
Diagnostic Tests 
According to the NCCN Panel, diagnostic workup of patients with 
symptomatic MM should include serum creatinine, electrolyte 
measurements, eGFR, electrophoresis of a sample from a 24 -hour urine 
collection, serum electrophoresis, and serum FLC  measurement. If 
proteinuria predominantly consists of light chains with high serum levels of 
FLC, and the cause of renal insufficiency can be attributed to MM, a renal 
biopsy may not be necessary. However, patients without a clear and complete explanation for their renal insufficiency should undergo renal 
biopsy to look for other pathophysiology such as monoclonal 
immunoglobulin deposition disease (MIDD) or membranoproliferative 
glomerulonephritis (MPGN).  
Treatment Options  
The initial treatment of cast nephropathy includes initiating appropriate MM 
therapy and providing adequate supportive care.  
Myeloma Therapy : Bortezomib  and/or a daratumumab- containing regimen 
can be administered in patients with severe renal impairment and also 
those on dialysis and does not require renal dose adjustment.
306- 310 Once 
the renal function improves or stabilizes, one can switch to other regimens.  
Agents used in myeloma therapy should be used with caution and with 
dose adjustments based on the degree of renal function impairment as recommended by the IMWG.
311 A retrospective study evaluated 
lenalidomide and dexamethasone based on two phase III trials of 
lenalidomide/low -dose dexamethasone in patients with relapsed/refractory 
MM with a serum creatinine of <2.5 mg/dL. Patients grouped by creatinine clearance >60 mL/min (n  = 243), 30– 60 mL/min (n  = 82), and <30 mL/min 
(n = 16) showed no difference in response rates to lenalidomide/low -dose 
dexamethasone.
312 Patients with renal insufficiency had higher rates of 
thrombocytopenia and lenalidomide discontinuation than seen in patients 
without renal insufficiency. The NCCN Panel has outlined 
recommendations for lenalidomide dosing based on the degree of renal function in patients with MM and renal impairment. While prospective data 
to define optimal dosing are often lacking, pomalidomide has been studied 
in patients with relapsed MM in three different categories of renal 
insufficiency (eGFR 30– 40 mL/min/1.73 sqm, eGFR <30 mL/min/1.73 
sqm, and those requiring dialysis) and ful l-dose pomalidomide of 4 mg 
daily was found to be safe in all three groups.
313   
Supportive Care: I V fluids should be started promptly to decrease the 
renal tubular light chain concentration with a goal urine output of 100 to 
150 cc per hour. Careful assessment of the fluid status is critical to avoid 
hypervolemia,  especially in patients with oliguria renal failure.  
In addition, nephrotoxic medications should be discontinued and other metabolic abnormalities such as hypercalcemia and hyperuricemia should 
be corrected. Hydration, bisphosphonates or denosumab, and calcitonin 
are recommended to reduce calcium levels in t he case of hypercalcemia. 
In patients with renal disease, pamidronate and zoledronic acid should be 
used with caution. The NCCN Panel has provided the recommended 
dosing of these agents in those who have renal impairment.  
Dialysis may be required in selected patients in addition to prompt 
institution of anti -myeloma therapy. Mechanical removal of light chains 
may be considered on a case- by-case basis. While the benefit of PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-49 mechanical removal of FLCs  has not been established, there is limited 
evidence for the use of plasmapheresis or high- cutoff dialysis to reduce 
pathogenic light chains.  
Monoclonal Gammopathy of Clinical Significance (MGCS)   
Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is defined 
by the absence of MM -defining events, presence of monoclonal 
gammopathy of <3 g/dL, and clonal population of BMPCs  less than 10%. 
The prevalence of MGUS in the general population is about 0.7%, and it 
increases with age.  
 MGCS refers to the potentially organ- toxic properties of M  protein. 
Typically, the M  protein in MGCS does not meet the diagnostic criteria for 
MM and Waldenström  macroglobulinemia (WM). Previously MGCS were 
all grouped under MGUS. Monoclonal gammopathy affects the renal function, and it is referred to as MGRS. Peripheral neuropathy mediated 
by a M protein in the serum and urine without any evidence of MM or WM 
is now defined as monoclonal gammopathy of neurological significance 
(MGNS).  
 
Monoclonal Gammopathy of Renal Significance (MGRS)  
The term “ MGRS ” was proposed by the International Kidney and 
Monoclonal Gammopathy Research Group to collectively describe 
patients who meet the criteria for MGUS but demonstrate renal injury 
attributable to the underlying M protein.314  
When the presence of monoclonal gammopathy affects the renal function, it is referred to as MGRS. Renal damage in the setting of symptomatic MM 
is not considered MGRS.  Initial Workup  
In patients suspected of having MGRS, kidney biopsy is performed. A 
kidney biopsy is essential in demonstrating the nephrotoxicity of the M 
protein. The biopsy may be deferred if the eGFR is stable, the urinalysis is normal , or there is no evidence of proteinuria (it  is not always light chain 
proteinuria).  
The presence of monoclonal immunoglobulin deposits in the kidney indicates the existence of a plasma cell, B cell, or lymphoplasmacytic 
clone that is responsible for the production of the M protein.  
M protein must be detected by electrophoresis and immunofixation in the 
urine and serum and must be correlated with the one found in biopsy. 
Immunofluorescence staining should be performed with the biopsy sample 
for IgG subclasses, IgA and IgM, and kappa and  lambda.  
Imaging by PET/CT, low -dose CT, or whole- body MRI should be 
performed as clinically indicated. Bone marrow biopsy is carried out if suspected to have MM or WM.   
Additional workup for appropriate diagnosis of suspected WM, CLL/SLL, 
or systemic light chain amyloidosis maybe carried out as outlined in the 
respective NCCN Guidelines (see NCCN Guidelines for Waldenström 
Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma,  NCCN Guidelines for 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, and 
NCCN Guidelines for Systemic Light Chain Amyloidosis ). 
Treatment  
The treatment of MGRS is directed at the underlying plasma cell or B -cell 
clones to improve or prevent further kidney damage in these patients. For 
IgG, IgA , and FLC MGRS , use the management algorithms for MM; f or 
IgM MGRS,  see NCCN Guidelines for Waldenström 
Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma . For any MGRS with PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-50 monoclonal B -cell lymphocytosis (MBL) features,  see NCCN Guidelines 
for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma. 
The response assessment in patients with MGRS who are being actively 
treated is as per the NCCN Guidelines listed above and includes SPEP 
and immunofixation; 24 -hour urine collection for total protein, protein 
electrophoresis, and immunofixation; serum FLC  assay; and serum 
creatinine.  
Monoclonal Gammopathy of Neurological Significance (MGNS)  
MGNS is a subset of MGCS that is predominantly characterized by 
neurologic symptoms (such as peripheral neuropathy) and the presence of 
M protein without evidence of active MM or WM.  
Patients with MGNS may have varying electrophysiologic features. A 
single -center retrospective analysis suggests that approximately 69% of 
patients with MGNS showed demyelinating features while 26% showed axonal features.
315 As a precursor state to numerous B -cell disorders, 
suspected MGNS does not always necessitate pharmacotherapy, but does warrant additional workup and evaluation to rule out other causes 
of neuropathy and inform clinical decision -making.  
Initial Workup  
MGNS may be the result of other comorbidities or conditions such as 
diabetes, cobalamin deficiency, thyroid dysfunction, Lyme disease, HIV 
infection, syphilis, autoimmune disease, or cryoglobulinemia. A comprehensive assessment of other causes of neuropathy is needed, including an evaluation for light chain amyloidosis, WM, or POEMS  
(Polyneuropathy,  Organomegaly,  Endocrinopathy,  Monoclonal 
protein,  Skin changes ) syndrome. Additional components of an initial 
workup include anti -MAG antibodies, ganglioside antibody panel, nerve 
conduction study (NCS) or electromyogram (EMG), neurology consult, and chest/abdominal/pelvic CT with contrast (if possible). Sural nerve biopsy may be considered in certain circumstances. A nerve biopsy is a 
less desirable diagnostic method due to the association with pain and potential permanent sensory or motor deficits.
316  
MYD88  L265P  allele -specific PCR testing of bone marrow is included in 
the initial workup of a patient with suspected MGNS. A study analyzed the 
correlation of MYD88  L265P  mutation in a large number of tumor samples 
across a variety of B -cell disorders and reported higher levels of IgM ( P < 
.0001) and higher frequency of proteinuria ( P = .002) in patients with the 
mutation compared to patients with wild- type MYD88 . The incidence of 
MYD88 L265P  mutation was reported in 100% of patients with WM, 47% 
of patient s with MGUS, 6% with splenic marginal zone lymphoma, and 4% 
of patients with B -cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorders.317 Subsequent 
studies have also reported the strong correlation of MYD88 mutation status in MGNS and WM.
318- 320 It should be noted that wild- type MYD88  
occurs in less than 10% of patients and should not be used to exclude 
diagnosis of WM if other criteria are met.  
CXCR4  gene mutation testing may be considered in certain circumstances 
due to its prevalence in MGNS. Several studies reported CXCR4  gene 
mutation as a common somatic mutation that has been linked with the 
MYD88  L265P  mutation.319-323 Notably , however, a study reported that 
CXCR4 mutation status had no impact on risk of death.320 Therefore, 
CXCR4  gene mutation testing may be included in the initial workup of a 
patient with suspected MGNS but should be interpreted in the context of 
other clinical findings to confirm diagnosis. 
Clinical Findings  
If there is either low suspicion or intermediate suspicion of MGNS that 
does not affect activities of daily living (ADLs), observation and follow -up 
as clinically indicated is appropriate. A low suspicion of MGNS may be 
determined if the following clinical  findings are present: motor/pain 
predominant, non -length dependent, rapid progression (weeks to months), PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-51 unilateral or asymmetrical, antibodies not present, and no demyelination 
confirmed by EMG/NCS.  
If there is either intermediate suspicion that affects ADLs or high suspicion 
of MGNS, please refer to the NCCN Guidelines for Waldenström 
Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma. A high suspicion of 
MGNS may be determined if the following clinical findings are present: sensory predominant, length dependent, slow progression (years), bilateral and symmetrical, antibodies present, and demyelination 
confirmed by EMG/NCS . Presence of the MYD88  L265P  and/or CXCR4  
mutations should also be considered in the further diagnosis of WM.  
 
POEMS Syndrome  
POEMS syndrome is a rare plasma cell disorder that is characterized by 
the dominant presence of demyelinating peripheral neuropathy and confirmed clonal plasma cell proliferation. The etiology is not well 
understood, but it is believed to be correlated wit h inflammatory cytokines, 
such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Despite the individual 
components of the acronym, not all of the features are necessary to make a diagnosis of POEMS syndrome. There are also other important features 
that are not  included in the acronym. Because of its rarity, POEMS 
syndrome may be underdiagnosed and mistaken for other chronic inflammatory syndromes.
324- 326 
The diagnosis of POEMS syndrome is confirmed when both mandatory 
major criteria, one of the other three major criteria, and one of the six minor criteria are present. The mandatory major criteria for diagnosis of POEMS syndrome include the presence of poly neuropathy (typical 
demyelinating) and monoclonal plasma cell  proliferative disorder [almost 
always λ (lambda)]. Additionally, at least one of the following major criteria is required: Castleman disease, sclerotic bone lesions, and/or VEGF elevation. Minor  criteria for diagnosis that may be present include 
organomegaly (ie, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, lymphadenopathy ), extravascular volume overload (eg, edema, pleural effusion, ascites ), 
endocrinopathy (ie, adrenal, thyroid, pituitary, gonadal, parathyroid, 
pancreatic ), skin changes (ie, hyperpigmentation, hypertrichosis, 
glomeruloid hemangiomata, plethora, acrocyanosis, flushing, white nails ), 
papilledema, and/or thrombocytosis/polycythemia. Other signs and 
symptoms may include clubbing, weight loss, hyperhidrosis, pulmonary 
hypertension, restrictive lung disease, thrombotic diatheses, diarrhea, 
and/or low vitamin B12 levels.
325 
Initial Workup  
If POEMS syndrome is suspected, a complete history and physical 
examination is warranted. Clinical findings should be evaluated for potential correlation to organomegaly (including splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, and lymphadenopathy). Presentation of symptoms such as hyperhidrosis, diarrhea, weight loss, and menstrual/sexual dysfunction 
should be accounted for in the initial workup. Fundoscopic, skin, and neurologic examinations may be performed to identify abnormalities. 
325 
Recommended initial testing beyond the initial workup includes electrophysiologic (nerve conduction) studies, CT of the 
chest/abdomen/pelvis (for lymphadenopathy, organomegaly, ascites, pleural effusion, and/or edema), echocardiography (for right ventricul ar 
systolic and pulmonary artery pressures), and CT body bone windows 
and/or FDG -PET/CT (for sclerotic bone lesions). Laboratory testing should 
include a CBC, complete metabolic panel, fasting glucose, serum 
immunoglobulins ( ie, IgG, IgA, IgM), electrophoresis and immunofixation, 
serum FLC, 24- hour urine total protein, VEGF, interleukin- 6 (IL-6), and 
numerous hormones ( ie, testosterone, estradiol, thyroid- stimulating 
hormone, parathyroid hormone, prolactin, serum cortisol, luteinizing hormone). A bone marrow aspirate and biopsy, FISH panel, and PCR 
should be done to assess for MM.
325 
Additional testing may be considered, if indicated. These additional tests 
include sural nerve biopsy, follicle- stimulating hormone, PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-52 adrenocorticotropin hormone, cosyntropin stimulation test, biopsy of bone 
lesion (if needed), and excisional lymph node biopsy (if Castleman disease or other B -cell lymphomas suspected).
325 
Treatment  
For a confirmed diagnosis of POEMS syndrome, treatment options may include RT, autologous transplant, and/or systemic therapy. RT  alone is 
recommended for isolated bone lesions (defined as <3 sites) in patients 
without clonal BMPC s.  
Autologous transplant is recommended in patients who are eligible as sole 
therapy or as consolidation after induction therapy. Patients who  are not 
eligible  for transplant  should receive induction therapy as treatment. 
Induction therapy options regardless of transplant eligibility include 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone, bortezomib/dexamethasone, 
melphalan/dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone, or 
pomalidomide/dexamethasone.  
Patients who progress after initial therapy should receive individualized 
treatment based on response and toxicity of prior therapy, with 
consideration of the patient’s performance status at the time of 
progression.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-53 References  
1. SEER Stat Fact Sheets: Myeloma. Available at: 
http://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/mulmy.html . 
2. Siegel RL, Miller KD, Wagle NS, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2023. CA 
Cancer J Clin 2023;73:17- 48. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36633525 . 
3. Kyle RA, Gertz MA, Witzig TE, et al. Review of 1027 patients with 
newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. Mayo Clin Proc 2003;78:21- 33. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12528874 . 
4. Dispenzieri A, Kyle RA, Katzmann JA, et al. Immunoglobulin free light 
chain ratio is an independent risk factor for progression of smoldering 
(asymptomatic) multiple myeloma. Blood 2008;111:785- 789. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17942755.  
5. Dispenzieri A, Zhang L, Katzmann JA, et al. Appraisal of 
immunoglobulin free light chain as a marker of response. Blood 
2008;111:4908 -4915. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18364469 . 
6. Dispenzieri A, Kyle R, Merlini G, et al. International Myeloma Working 
Group guidelines for serum -free light chain analysis in multiple myeloma 
and related disorders. Leukemia 2009;23:215 -224. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19020545 . 
7. Kuhnemund A, Liebisch P, Bauchmuller K, et al. 'Light -chain escape -
multiple myeloma' -an escape phenomenon from plateau phase: report of 
the largest patient series using LC -monitoring. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol 
2009;135:477 -484. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18802723 . 
8. Durie BG, Harousseau JL, Miguel JS, et al. International uniform 
response criteria for multiple myeloma. Leukemia 2006;20:1467 -1473. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16855634 . 9. Craig FE, Foon KA. Flow cytometric immunophenotyping for hematologic neoplasms. Blood 2008;111:3941 -3967. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18198345 . 
10. Paiva B, Vidriales MB, Perez JJ, et al. Multiparameter flow cytometry 
quantification of bone marrow plasma cells at diagnosis provides more 
prognostic information than morphological assessment in myeloma 
patients. Haematologica 2009;94:1599 -1602. Avail able at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19880781 . 
11. Xiong W, Wu X, Starnes S, et al. An analysis of the clinical and biologic significance of TP53 loss and the identification of potential novel 
transcriptional targets of TP53 in multiple myeloma. Blood 
2008;112:4235 -4246. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18337559 . 
12. Drach J, Ackermann J, Fritz E, et al. Presence of a p53 gene deletion in patients with multiple myeloma predicts for short survival after 
conventional -dose chemotherapy. Blood 1998;92:802 -809. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9680348.  
13. Avet -Loiseau H, Attal M, Moreau P, et al. Genetic abnormalities and 
survival in multiple myeloma: the experience of the Intergroupe 
Francophone du Myelome. Blood 2007;109:3489- 3495. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17209057 . 
14. Gertz MA, Lacy MQ, Dispenzieri A, et al. Clinical implications of 
t(11;14)(q13;q32), t(4;14)(p16.3;q32), and - 17p13 in myeloma patients 
treated with high -dose therapy. Blood 2005;106:2837- 2840. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15976175 . 
15. Gutierrez NC, Castellanos MV, Martin ML, et al. Prognostic and 
biological implications of genetic abnormalities in multiple myeloma 
undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation: t(4;14) is the most 
relevant adverse prognostic factor, whereas RB deletion as a unique 
abnormality is not associated with adverse prognosis. Leukemia 
2007;21:143 -150. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17024116 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-54 16. Ross FM, Chiecchio L, Dagrada G, et al. The t(14;20) is a poor 
prognostic factor in myeloma but is associated with long -term stable 
disease in monoclonal gammopathies of undetermined significance. 
Haematologica 2010;95:1221- 1225. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20410185 . 
17. Ross FM, Avet -Loiseau H, Ameye G, et al. Report from the European 
Myeloma Network on interphase FISH in multiple myeloma and related 
disorders. Haematologica 2012;97:1272 -1277. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22371180 . 
18. Hanamura I, Stewart JP, Huang Y, et al. Frequent gain of 
chromosome band 1q21 in plasma- cell dyscrasias detected by 
fluorescence in situ hybridization: incidence increases from MGUS to 
relapsed myeloma and is related to prognosis and disease progression 
following tandem stem -cell transplantation. Blood 2006;108:1724 -1732. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16705089 . 
19. Carrasco DR, Tonon G, Huang Y, et al. High- resolution genomic 
profiles define distinct clinico -pathogenetic subgroups of multiple 
myeloma patients. Cancer Cell 2006;9:313- 325. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16616336 . 
20. Rosinol L, Carrio A, Blade J, et al. Comparative genomic 
hybridisation identifies two variants of smoldering multiple myeloma. Br J 
Haematol 2005;130:729 -732. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16115129 . 
21. Dispenzieri A, Rajkumar SV, Gertz MA, et al. Treatment of newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma based on Mayo Stratification of Myeloma 
and Risk -adapted Therapy (mSMART): consensus statement. Mayo Clin 
Proc 2007;82:323 -341. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17352369 . 
22. Kumar SK, Mikhael JR, Buadi FK, et al. Management of newly diagnosed symptomatic multiple myeloma: updated Mayo Stratification of 
Myeloma and Risk -Adapted Therapy (mSMART) consensus guidelines. 
Mayo Clin Proc 2009;84:1095- 1110. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19955246 . 23. D'Agostino M, Cairns DA, Lahuerta JJ, et al. Second Revision of the 
International Staging System (R2 -ISS) for Overall Survival in Multiple 
Myeloma: A European Myeloma Network (EMN) Report Within the HARMONY Project. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:3406 -3418. Avai lable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35605179 . 
24. Hillengass J, Moulopoulos LA, Delorme S, et al. Findings of Whole 
Body Computed Tomography Compared to Conventional Skeletal 
Survey in Patients with Monoclonal Plasma Cell Disorders - a Study of 
the International Myeloma Working Group [Abstract]. Blood  
2016;128:4468. Available at: 
http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/128/22/4468 . 
25. Kropil P, Fenk R, Fritz LB, et al. Comparison of whole- body 64 -slice 
multidetector computed tomography and conventional radiography in 
staging of multiple myeloma. Eur Radiol 2008;18:51 -58. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17924119 . 
26. Princewill K, Kyere S, Awan O, Mulligan M. Multiple myeloma lesion 
detection with whole body CT versus radiographic skeletal survey. 
Cancer Invest 2013;31:206- 211. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23406213 . 
27. Nanni C, Zamagni E, Farsad M, et al. Role of 18F -FDG PET/CT in 
the assessment of bone involvement in newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma: preliminary results. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging 2006;33:525 -
531. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16453155.  
28. Siontis B, Kumar S, Dispenzieri A, et al. Positron emission 
tomography -computed tomography in the diagnostic evaluation of 
smoldering multiple myeloma: identification of patients needing therapy. 
Blood Cancer J 2015;5:e364. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26495861 . 
29. Zamagni E, Nanni C, Gay F, et al. 18F- FDG PET/CT focal, but not 
osteolytic, lesions predict the progression of smoldering myeloma to 
active disease. Leukemia 2016;30:417 -422. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26490489 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-55 30. Hillengass J, Fechtner K, Weber MA, et al. Prognostic significance of 
focal lesions in whole -body magnetic resonance imaging in patients with 
asymptomatic multiple myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1606 -1610. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20177023 . 
31. Merz M, Hielscher T, Wagner B, et al. Predictive value of longitudinal 
whole -body magnetic resonance imaging in patients with smoldering 
multiple myeloma. Leukemia 2014;28:1902- 1908. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24535407 . 
32. Kumar SK, Rajkumar SV. The multiple myelomas - current concepts 
in cytogenetic classification and therapy. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 
2018;15:409 -421. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29686421 . 
33. van Beers EH, van Vliet MH, Kuiper R, et al. Prognostic Validation of 
SKY92 and Its Combination With ISS in an Independent Cohort of 
Patients With Multiple Myeloma. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 
2017;17:555 -562. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28735890 . 
34. Rajkumar SV, Dimopoulos MA, Palumbo A, et al. International Myeloma Working Group updated criteria for the diagnosis of multiple 
myeloma. Lancet Oncol 2014;15:e538 -548. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25439696 . 
35. Lakshman A, Rajkumar SV, Buadi FK, et al. Risk stratification of 
smoldering multiple myeloma incorporating revised IMWG diagnostic 
criteria. Blood Cancer J 2018;8:59. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29895887 . 
36. Mateos MV, Kumar S, Dimopoulos MA, et al. International Myeloma 
Working Group risk stratification model for smoldering multiple myeloma 
(SMM). Blood Cancer J 2020;10:102. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33067414 . 
37. Touzeau C, Moreau P. How I treat extramedullary myeloma. Blood 
2016;127:971 -976. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26679866 . 38. Granell M, Calvo X, Garcia -Guinon A, et al. Prognostic impact of 
circulating plasma cells in patients with multiple myeloma: implications 
for plasma cell leukemia definition. Haematologica 2017;102:1099- 1104. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28255016 . 
39. Schavgoulidze A, Talbot A, Perrot A, et al. Biallelic deletion of 1p32 defines ultra- high- risk myeloma, but monoallelic del(1p32) remains a 
strong prognostic factor. Blood 2023;141:1308 -1315. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36375118 . 
40. Greipp PR, San Miguel J, Durie BG, et al. International staging 
system for multiple myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:3412- 3420. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15809451.  
41. Palumbo A, Avet -Loiseau H, Oliva S, et al. Revised International 
Staging System for Multiple Myeloma: A Report From International 
Myeloma Working Group. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:2863- 2869. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26240224 . 
42. Knowling MA, Harwood AR, Bergsagel DE. Comparison of 
extramedullary plasmacytomas with solitary and multiple plasma cell 
tumors of bone. J Clin Oncol 1983;1:255 -262. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6668499.  
43. Dores GM, Landgren O, McGlynn KA, et al. Plasmacytoma of bone, 
extramedullary plasmacytoma, and multiple myeloma: incidence and 
survival in the United States, 1992- 2004. Br J Haematol 2009;144:86- 94. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19016727 . 
44. Zamagni E, Nanni C, Patriarca F, et al. A prospective comparison of 
18F- fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography -computed 
tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and whole- body planar 
radiographs in the assessment of bone disease in newly diagnosed 
multiple myeloma. Haematologica 2007;92:50 -55. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17229635 . 
45. Fonti R, Salvatore B, Quarantelli M, et al. 18F- FDG PET/CT, 99mTc -
MIBI, and MRI in evaluation of patients with multiple myeloma. J Nucl PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-56 Med 2008;49:195 -200. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18199607 . 
46. Nahi H, Genell A, Walinder G, et al. Incidence, characteristics, and 
outcome of solitary plasmacytoma and plasma cell leukemia. Population-
based data from the Swedish Myeloma Register. Eur J Haematol 
2017;99:216 -222. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28544116 . 
47. Paiva B, Chandia M, Vidriales MB, et al. Multiparameter flow cytometry for staging of solitary bone plasmacytoma: new criteria for risk 
of progression to myeloma. Blood 2014;124:1300- 1303. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24876564 . 
48. Dimopoulos MA, Goldstein J, Fuller L, et al. Curability of solitary 
bone plasmacytoma. J Clin Oncol 1992;10:587- 590. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1548521.  
49. Hu K, Yahalom J. Radiotherapy in the management of plasma cell tumors. Oncology (Williston Park) 2000;14:101 -108, 111; discussion 
111-102, 115. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10680152 . 
50. Creach KM, Foote RL, Neben -Wittich MA, Kyle RA. Radiotherapy for 
extramedullary plasmacytoma of the head and neck. Int J Radiat Oncol 
Biol Phys 2009;73:789 -794. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18707826 . 
51. Tournier -Rangeard L, Lapeyre M, Graff -Caillaud P, et al. 
Radiotherapy for solitary extramedullary plasmacytoma in the head -and-
neck region: A dose greater than 45 Gy to the target volume improves 
the local control. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2006;64: 1013- 1017. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16343803 . 
52. Reed V, Shah J, Medeiros LJ, et al. Solitary plasmacytomas: 
outcome and prognostic factors after definitive radiation therapy. Cancer 
2011;117:4468 -4474. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21437886 . 53. Frassica DA, Frassica FJ, Schray MF, et al. Solitary plasmacytoma 
of bone: Mayo Clinic experience. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
1989;16:43- 48. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2912957.  
54. Ozsahin M, Tsang RW, Poortmans P, et al. Outcomes and patterns of failure in solitary plasmacytoma: a multicenter Rare Cancer Network 
study of 258 patients. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2006;64:210 -217. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16229966 . 
55. Knobel D, Zouhair A, Tsang RW, et al. Prognostic factors in solitary 
plasmacytoma of the bone: a multicenter Rare Cancer Network study. 
BMC Cancer 2006;6:118. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16677383 . 
56. Sasaki R, Yasuda K, Abe E, et al. Multi -institutional analysis of 
solitary extramedullary plasmacytoma of the head and neck treated with 
curative radiotherapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;82:626 -634. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21277117 . 
57. Tsang RW, Gospodarowicz MK, Pintilie M, et al. Solitary 
plasmacytoma treated with radiotherapy: impact of tumor size on 
outcome. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2001;50:113- 120. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11316553 . 
58. Tsang RW, Campbell BA, Goda JS, et al. Radiation Therapy for 
Solitary Plasmacytoma and Multiple Myeloma: Guidelines From the 
International Lymphoma Radiation Oncology Group. Int J Radiat Oncol 
Biol Phys 2018;101:794 -808. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29976492 . 
59. Gerry D, Lentsch EJ. Epidemiologic evidence of superior outcomes for extramedullary plasmacytoma of the head and neck. Otolaryngol 
Head Neck Surg 2013;148:974- 981. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23482476 . 
60. Group TIMW. Criteria for the classification of monoclonal 
gammopathies, multiple myeloma and related disorders: a report of the 
International Myeloma Working Group. British Journal of Haematology PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-57 2003;121:749 -757. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-
2141.2003.04355.x . 
61. Kyle RA, Remstein ED, Therneau TM, et al. Clinical course and 
prognosis of smoldering (asymptomatic) multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2007;356:2582 -2590. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17582068 . 
62. Mateos MV, Hernandez MT, Giraldo P, et al. Lenalidomide plus 
dexamethasone for high -risk smoldering multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2013;369:438 -447. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23902483 . 
63. Mateos MV, Hernandez MT, Giraldo P, et al. Lenalidomide plus 
dexamethasone versus observation in patients with high- risk 
smouldering multiple myeloma (QuiRedex): long- term follow- up of a 
randomised, controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:1127 -1136. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27402145 . 
64. Lonial S, Jacobus S, Fonseca R, et al. Randomized Trial of 
Lenalidomide Versus Observation in Smoldering Multiple Myeloma. J 
Clin Oncol 2020;38:1126- 1137. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31652094 . 
65. San Miguel J, Mateos M -V, Gonzalez V, et al. Updated risk 
stratification model for smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM) incorporating the revised IMWG diagnostic criteria. Journal of Clinical Oncology 
2019;37:8000 -8000. Available at: 
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2019.37.15_suppl.8000.  
66. Reeder CB, Reece DE, Kukreti V, et al. Once-  versus twice -weekly 
bortezomib induction therapy with CyBorD in newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma. Blood 2010;115:3416- 3417. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20413666 . 
67. Moreau P, Pylypenko H, Grosicki S, et al. Subcutaneous versus 
intravenous administration of bortezomib in patients with relapsed 
multiple myeloma: a randomised, phase 3, non- inferiority study. Lancet Oncol 2011;12:431 -440. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21507715 . 
68. Arnulf B, Pylypenko H, Grosicki S, et al. Updated survival analysis of 
a randomized phase III study of subcutaneous versus intravenous 
bortezomib in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma. Haematologica 
2012;97:1925 -1928. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22689676 . 
69. Mateos MV, Nahi H, Legiec W, et al. Subcutaneous versus intravenous daratumumab in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple 
myeloma (COLUMBA): a multicentre, open -label, non- inferiority, 
randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet Haematol 2020;7:e370 -e380.  Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32213342.  
70. Nair V, Mohammed H, Mahmood S, et al. Assessing Steroid Toxicity 
in the Elderly with Multiple Myeloma. Blood 2019; 134 (Supplement_1): 
5557. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1182/blood- 2019- 125442 . 
71. Larocca A, Bonello F, Gaidano G, et al. Dose/schedule -adjusted Rd-
R vs continuous Rd for elderly, intermediate -fit patients with newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma. Blood 2021;137:3027- 3036. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33739404 . 
72. Richardson PG, Weller E, Lonial S, et al. Lenalidomide, bortezomib, 
and dexamethasone combination therapy in patients with newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma. Blood 2010;116:679- 686. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20385792 . 
73. Roussel M, Lauwers -Cances V, Robillard N, et al. Front -line 
transplantation program with lenalidomide, bortezomib, and 
dexamethasone combination as induction and consolidation followed by 
lenalidomide maintenance in patients with multiple myeloma: a phase II 
study by the Intergroupe Francophone du Myelome. J Clin Oncol 
2014;32:2712 -2717. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25024076 . 
74. Kumar S, Flinn I, Richardson PG, et al. Randomized, multicenter, 
phase 2 study (EVOLUTION) of combinations of bortezomib, PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-58 dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, and lenalidomide in previously 
untreated multiple myeloma. Blood 2012;119:4375- 4382. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22422823 . 
75. Durie BGM, Hoering A, Abidi MH, et al. Bortezomib with lenalidomide 
and dexamethasone versus lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone in 
patients with newly diagnosed myeloma without intent for immediate 
autologous stem -cell transplant (SWOG S0777): a randomised, open -
label, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2017;389:519- 527. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28017406 . 
76. Durie BGM, Hoering A, Sexton R, et al. Longer term follow -up of the 
randomized phase III trial SWOG S0777: bortezomib, lenalidomide and 
dexamethasone vs. lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients (Pts) 
with previously untreated multiple myeloma without an intent for 
immediate autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). Blood Cancer J 
2020;10:53. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32393732 . 
77. Kumar SK, Jacobus SJ, Cohen AD, et al. Carfilzomib or bortezomib 
in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone for patients with 
newly diagnosed multiple myeloma without intention for immediate 
autologous stem -cell transplantation (ENDURANCE): a m ulticentre, 
open- label, phase 3, randomised, controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 
2020;21:1317 -1330. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32866432 . 
78. Okazuka K, Ishida T, Nashimoto J, et al. The efficacy and safety of modified bortezomib -lenalidomide -dexamethasone in transplant -eligible 
patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. Eur J Haematol 
2020;104:110 -115. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31733155 . 
79. Jakubowiak AJ, Dytfeld D, Griffith KA, et al. A phase 1/2 study of 
carfilzomib in combination with lenalidomide and low -dose 
dexamethasone as a frontline treatment for multiple myeloma. Blood 
2012;120:1801 -1809. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22665938 . 80. Korde N, Zingone A, Kwok M, et al. Phase II clinical and correlative 
study of carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (CRd) in newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM) patients [abstract]. j Clin Oncol 
2012;30:e18568. Available at: 
http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/30/15_suppl/e18568 . 
81. Korde N, Roschewski M, Zingone A, et al. Treatment With 
Carfilzomib -Lenalidomide- Dexamethasone With Lenalidomide Extension 
in Patients With Smoldering or Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma. 
JAMA Oncol 2015;1:746 -754. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26181891 . 
82. Jasielec JK, Kubicki T, Raje N, et al. Carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and 
dexamethasone plus transplant in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. 
Blood 2020;136:2513 -2523. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32735641 . 
83. Facon T, Venner, CP. Bahlis, NJ. et al Ixazomib Plus 
LenalidomideDexamethasone (IRd) vs. PlaceboRd for Newly Diagnosed 
Multiple Myeloma (NDMM) Patients Not Eligible for Autologous Stem Cell 
Transplant: The Double- Blind, Placebo -Controlled, Phase 3 
TOUR MALINE -MM2 Trial [Abstract]. Abstract MM -347 presented at 
Society of Hema -to-logic Oncology (SOHO) Eighth Annual Meeting 2020. 
Available at: https://clml -
soho2020.elsevierdigitaledition.com/306/index.html#zoom=z . 
84. Facon T, Venner CP, Bahlis NJ, et al. Oral ixazomib, lenalidomide, 
and dexamethasone for transplant -ineligible patients with newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma. Blood 2021;137:3616- 3628. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33763699 . 
85. Voorhees PM, Kaufman JL, Laubach J, et al. Daratumumab, lenalidomide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone for transplant -eligible 
newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: the GRIFFIN trial. Blood 
2020;136:936 -945. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32325490 . 
86. Laubach JP, Kaufman JL, Sborov DW, et al. Daratumumab (DARA) 
plus lenalidomide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone (RVd) in patients PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-59 (Pts) with transplant -eligible newly diagnosed multiple myeloma 
(NDMM): Updated analysis of Griffin after 24 months of maintenance. 
Blood 2021;138:79 -79. Available at: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006497121020693.  
87. Reeder CB, Reece DE, Kukreti V, et al. Cyclophosphamide, bortezomib and dexamethasone induction for newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma: high response rates in a phase II clinical trial. Leukemia 
2009;23:1337 -1341. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19225538 . 
88. Knop S, Liebisch P, Wandt H, et al. Bortezomib, IV cyclophosphamide, and dexamethasone (VelCD) as induction therapy in 
newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: Results of an interim analysis of the 
German DSMM Xia trial.  2009;27:8516- 8516. Available at: 
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/jco.2009.27.15s.8516 . 
89. Reeder CB, Reece DE, Kukreti V, et al. Long- term survival with 
cyclophosphamide, bortezomib and dexamethasone induction therapy in 
patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. Br J Haematol 
2014;167:563 -565. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24974945 . 
90. Sonneveld P, Schmidt -Wolf IG, van der Holt B, et al. Bortezomib 
induction and maintenance treatment in patients with newly diagnosed 
multiple myeloma: results of the randomized phase III HOVON -65/ 
GMMG -HD4 trial. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:2946 -2955. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22802322 . 
91. Bringhen S, Petrucci MT, Larocca A, et al. Carfilzomib, 
cyclophosphamide, and dexamethasone in patients with newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma: a multicenter, phase 2 study. Blood 
2014;124:63 -69. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24855212 . 
92. Bringhen S, D'Agostino M, De Paoli L, et al. Phase 1/2 study of 
weekly carfilzomib, cyclophosphamide, dexamethasone in newly 
diagnosed transplant -ineligible myeloma. Leukemia 2018;32:979 -985. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29263440 . 93. Bringhen S, Mina R, Petrucci MT, et al. Once -weekly versus twice-
weekly carfilzomib in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: a 
pooled analysis of two phase I/II studies. Haematologica 2019;104:1640 -
1647. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30733270 . 
94. Boccia RV, Bessudo A, Agajanian R, et al. A Multicenter, Open -
Label, Phase 1b Study of Carfilzomib, Cyclophosphamide, and 
Dexamethasone in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Patients 
(CHAMPION -2). Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2017;17:433 -437. 
Available at:  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28576443 . 
95. Dimopoulos MA, Grosicki S, Jedrzejczak WW, et al. All -oral 
ixazomib, cyclophosphamide, and dexamethasone for transplant -
ineligible patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. Eur J Cancer 
2019;106:89 -98. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30471652 . 
96. Moreau P, Attal M, Hulin C, et al. Bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone with or without daratumumab before and after 
autologous stem -cell transplantation for newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma (CASSIOPEIA): a randomised, open- label, phase 3 study. 
Lancet 2019;394:29 -38. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31171419 . 
97. Landgren O, Hultcrantz M, Diamond B, et al. Safety and 
Effectiveness of Weekly Carfilzomib, Lenalidomide, Dexamethasone, 
and Daratumumab Combination Therapy for Patients With Newly 
Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma: The MANHATTAN Nonrandomized Clinical 
Trial.  JAMA Oncol 2021;7:862 -868. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33856405 . 
98. Costa LJ, Chhabra S, Medvedova E, et al. Daratumumab, 
Carfilzomib, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone With Minimal Residual 
Disease Response -Adapted Therapy in Newly Diagnosed Multiple 
Myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:2901 -2912. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34898239 . 
99. Yimer H, Melear J, Faber E, et al. Daratumumab, bortezomib, 
cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-60 relapsed multiple myeloma: LYRA study. Br J Haematol 2019;185:492 -
502. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30828799.  
100. Barlogie B, Anaissie E, van Rhee F, et al. Incorporating bortezomib 
into upfront treatment for multiple myeloma: early results of total therapy 
3. Br J Haematol 2007;138:176- 185. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17593024 . 
101. Goldschmidt H, Mai EK, Bertsch U, et al. Addition of isatuximab to 
lenalidomide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone as induction therapy for 
newly diagnosed, transplantation -eligible patients with multiple myeloma 
(GMMG -HD7): part 1 of an open- label, multi centre, randomised, active -
controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Haematol 2022;9:e810 -e821. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36328040.  
102. O'Donnell EK, Laubach JP, Yee AJ, et al. A phase 2 study of 
modified lenalidomide, bortezomib and dexamethasone in transplant -
ineligible multiple myeloma. Br J Haematol 2018;182:222 -230. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29740809.  
103. Facon T, Kumar SK, Plesner T, et al. Daratumumab, lenalidomide, 
and dexamethasone versus lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone in 
newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MAIA): overall survival results from 
a randomised, open- label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Onc ol 2021;22:1582 -
1596. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34655533 . 
104. Mateos MV, Dimopoulos MA, Cavo M, et al. Daratumumab plus 
Bortezomib, Melphalan, and Prednisone for Untreated Myeloma. N Engl 
J Med 2018;378:518 -528. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29231133 . 
105. Dytfeld D, Jasielec J, Griffith KA, et al. Carfilzomib, lenalidomide, 
and low -dose dexamethasone in elderly patients with newly diagnosed 
multiple myeloma. Haematologica 2014;99:e162- 164. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24972772 . 
106. Kumar SK, Berdeja JG, Niesvizky R, et al. Safety and tolerability of 
ixazomib, an oral proteasome inhibitor, in combination with lenalidomide 
and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma: an open -label phase 1/2 study. Lancet Oncol 2014;15:1503 -
1512. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25456369 . 
107. Zonder JA, Crowley J, Hussein MA, et al. Superiority of 
lenalidomide (Len) plus high- dose dexamethasone (HD) compared to HD 
alone as treatment of newly -diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM): 
Results of the randomized, double -blinded, placebo- controlled SW OG 
Trial S0232 [abstract]. Blood 2007;110:Abstract 77. Available at: 
http://abstracts.hematologylibrary.org/cgi/content/abstract/110/11/77 . 
108. Rajkumar SV, Jacobus S, Callander NS, et al. Lenalidomide plus 
high- dose dexamethasone versus lenalidomide plus low -dose 
dexamethasone as initial therapy for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: 
an open- label randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 2010;11:29- 37. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19853510 . 
109. Benboubker L, Dimopoulos MA, Dispenzieri A, et al. Lenalidomide and dexamethasone in transplant -ineligible patients with myeloma. N 
Engl J Med 2014;371:906- 917. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25184863 . 
110. Attal M, Lauwers -Cances V, Marit G, et al. Lenalidomide 
maintenance after stem -cell transplantation for multiple myeloma. N Engl 
J Med 2012;366:1782 -1791. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22571202 . 
111. McCarthy PL, Owzar K, Hofmeister CC, et al. Lenalidomide after 
stem -cell transplantation for multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2012;366:1770 -1781. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22571201 . 
112. Usmani SZ, Sexton R, Hoering A, et al. Second malignancies in 
total therapy 2 and 3 for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: influence of 
thalidomide and lenalidomide during maintenance. Blood 2012;120:1597 -
1600. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22674807 . 
113. Palumbo A, Bringhen S, Kumar SK, et al. Second primary 
malignancies with lenalidomide therapy for newly diagnosed myeloma: a PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-61 meta -analysis of individual patient data. Lancet Oncol 2014;15:333 -342. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24525202 . 
114. Dimopoulos MA, Cheung MC, Roussel M, et al. Impact of renal 
impairment on outcomes with lenalidomide and dexamethasone 
treatment in the FIRST trial, a randomized, open -label phase 3 trial in 
transplant -ineligible patients with multiple myeloma. Haemat ologica 
2016;101:363 -370. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26659916 . 
115. Hulin C, Belch A, Shustik C, et al. Updated Outcomes and Impact of 
Age With Lenalidomide and Low -Dose Dexamethasone or Melphalan, 
Prednisone, and Thalidomide in the Randomized, Phase III FIRST Trial. 
J Clin Oncol 2016;34:3609- 3617. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27325857 . 
116. Kumar SK, Lacy MQ, Hayman SR, et al. Lenalidomide, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone (CRd) for newly diagnosed 
multiple myeloma: results from a phase 2 trial. Am J Hematol 
2011;86:640 -645. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21630308 . 
117. Pawlyn C, Brioli A, Gregory W, et al. Lenalidomide Combined With Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone Is Effective and Well Tolerated 
Induction Treatment For Newly Diagnosed Myeloma Patients Of All 
Ages. Blood 2013;122:540- 540. Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.V122.21.540.540 . 
118. Jackson GH, Davies FE, Pawlyn C, et al. Lenalidomide before and after autologous stem cell transplantation for transplant -eligible patients 
of all ages in the randomized, phase III, Myeloma XI trial. Haematologica 
2021;106:1957 -1967. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32499244 . 
119. Niesvizky R, Flinn IW, Rifkin R, et al. Community -Based Phase IIIB 
Trial of Three UPFRONT Bortezomib -Based Myeloma Regimens. J Clin 
Oncol 2015;33:3921 -3929. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26056177 . 120. Niesvizky R, Flinn IW, Rifkin R, et al. Efficacy and safety of three 
bortezomib -based combinations in elderly, newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma patients: Results from all randomized patients in the community -based, phase 3b UPFRONT study [abstract]. B lood 
2011;118:Abstract 478. Available at: 
http://abstracts.hematologylibrary.org/cgi/content/abstract/118/21/478 . 
121. Zepeda J, H. V, Duggan P, et al. Cyclophosphamide, bortezomib 
and dexamethasone (CyBORD) is a feasible and active regimen for non -
transplant eligible multiple myeloma patients [Abstract}. Blood 
2014;124:5751 -5751. Available at: 
http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/124/21/5751 . 
122. Rajkumar SV. Multiple myeloma: 2011 update on diagnosis, risk -
stratification, and management. Am J Hematol 2011;86:57- 65. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21181954.  
123. Palumbo A, Rajkumar SV, San Miguel JF, et al. International 
Myeloma Working Group consensus statement for the management, 
treatment, and supportive care of patients with myeloma not eligible for 
standard autologous stem -cell transplantation. J Clin On col 2014;32:587-
600. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24419113.  
124. Kumar S, Paiva B, Anderson KC, et al. International Myeloma Working Group consensus criteria for response and minimal residual 
disease assessment in multiple myeloma. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:e328-
e346. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27511158 . 
125. Walker R, Barlogie B, Haessler J, et al. Magnetic resonance 
imaging in multiple myeloma: diagnostic and clinical implications. J Clin 
Oncol 2007;25:1121 -1128. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17296972 . 
126. Bartel TB, Haessler J, Brown TL, et al. F18 -fluorodeoxyglucose 
positron emission tomography in the context of other imaging techniques and prognostic factors in multiple myeloma. Blood 2009;114:2068 -2076. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19443657 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-62 127. Zamagni E, Nanni C, Mancuso K, et al. PET/CT Improves the 
Definition of Complete Response and Allows to Detect Otherwise 
Unidentifiable Skeletal Progression in Multiple Myeloma. Clin Cancer 
Res 2015;21:4384 -4390. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26078390 . 
128. Moreau P, Attal M, Caillot D, et al. Prospective Evaluation of 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging and [(18)F]Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron 
Emission Tomography -Computed Tomography at Diagnosis and Before 
Maintenance Therapy in Symptomatic Patients With Multiple Myeloma 
Included in the IFM/DFCI 2009 Trial: Results of the IMAJEM Study. J 
Clin Oncol 2017;35:2911- 2918. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28686535 . 
129. Pawlyn C, Fowkes L, Otero S, et al. Whole -body diffusion- weighted 
MRI: a new gold standard for assessing disease burden in patients with 
multiple myeloma? Leukemia 2016;30:1446- 1448. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26648535 . 
130. Rasche L, Angtuaco E, McDonald JE, et al. Low expression of 
hexokinase -2 is associated with false- negative FDG -positron emission 
tomography in multiple myeloma. Blood 2017;130:30 -34. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28432222 . 
131. Rasche L, Alapat D, Kumar M, et al. Combination of flow cytometry 
and functional imaging for monitoring of residual disease in myeloma. 
Leukemia 2019;33:1713 -1722. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30573775 . 
132. Munshi NC, Avet -Loiseau H, Rawstron AC, et al. Association of 
Minimal Residual Disease With Superior Survival Outcomes in Patients With Multiple Myeloma: A Meta -analysis. JAMA Oncol 2017;3:28- 35. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27632282 . 
133. Attal M, Harousseau JL, Stoppa AM, et al. A prospective, randomized trial of autologous bone marrow transplantation and 
chemotherapy in multiple myeloma. Intergroupe Francais du Myelome. N 
Engl J Med 1996;335:91 -97. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8649495.  134. Child JA, Morgan GJ, Davies FE, et al. High-dose chemotherapy 
with hematopoietic stem -cell rescue for multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2003;348:1875 -1883. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12736280 . 
135. Barlogie B, Kyle RA, Anderson KC, et al. Standard chemotherapy 
compared with high -dose chemoradiotherapy for multiple myeloma: final 
results of phase III US Intergroup Trial S9321. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:929 -
936. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16432076.  
136. Moreau P, Facon T, Attal M, et al. Comparison of 200 mg/m(2) 
melphalan and 8 Gy total body irradiation plus 140 mg/m(2) melphalan 
as conditioning regimens for peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in 
patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma : final analysis of the 
Intergroupe Francophone du Myelome 9502 randomized trial. Blood 2002;99:731 -735. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11806971 . 
137. Fermand JP, Katsahian S, Divine M, et al. High- dose therapy and 
autologous blood stem -cell transplantation compared with conventional 
treatment in myeloma patients aged 55 to 65 years: long -term results of 
a randomized control trial from the Group Myelome- Autogreffe. J Clin 
Oncol 2005;23:9227 -9233. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16275936 . 
138. Palumbo A, Cavallo F, Gay F, et al. Autologous transplantation and maintenance therapy in multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 2014;371:895-
905. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25184862.  
139. Harousseau JL, Attal M, Avet -Loiseau H, et al. Bortezomib plus 
dexamethasone is superior to vincristine plus doxorubicin plus 
dexamethasone as induction treatment prior to autologous stem -cell 
transplantation in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: resul ts of the IFM 
2005- 01 phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:4621- 4629. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20823406 . 
140. Cavo M, Pantani L, Petrucci MT, et al. Bortezomib -thalidomide -
dexamethasone is superior to thalidomide -dexamethasone as 
consolidation therapy after autologous hematopoietic stem cell PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-63 transplantation in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. Blood 
2012;120:9- 19. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22498745 . 
141. Attal M, Lauwers -Cances V, Hulin C, et al. Lenalidomide, 
Bortezomib, and Dexamethasone with Transplantation for Myeloma. N 
Engl J Med 2017;376:1311- 1320. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28379796 . 
142. Attal M, Harousseau JL, Facon T, et al. Single versus double 
autologous stem -cell transplantation for multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2003;349:2495 -2502. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14695409 . 
143. Cavo M, Tosi P, Zamagni E, et al. Prospective, randomized study of single compared with double autologous stem -cell transplantation for 
multiple myeloma: Bologna 96 clinical study. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:2434 -
2441. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17485707 . 
144. Sonneveld P, van der Holt B, Segeren C, et al. Intensive versus 
double intensive therapy in untreated multiple myeloma: Updated 
analysis of the randomized phase III study HOVON 24 MM [abstract]. 
Blood 2004;104:Abstract  948. Available at: 
http://abstracts.hematologylibrary.org/cgi/content/abstract/104/11/948 . 
145. Mai EK, Benner A, Bertsch U, et al. Single versus tandem high -
dose melphalan followed by autologous blood stem cell transplantation in 
multiple myeloma: long -term results from the phase III GMMG -HD2 trial. 
Br J Haematol 2016;173:731 -741. Available at:  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26990892 . 
146. Barlogie B, Attal M, Crowley J, et al. Long- term follow -up of 
autotransplantation trials for multiple myeloma: update of protocols conducted by the intergroupe francophone du myelome, southwest 
oncology group, and university of arkansas for medical sc iences. J Clin 
Oncol 2010;28:1209 -1214. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20085933 . 147. Stadtmauer A, Pasquini M, Blackwell B, et al. Comparison of 
autologous hematopoietic cell transplant (autoHCT), bortezomib, 
lenalidomide (Len) and dexamethasone (RVD) consolidation with Len 
maintenance (ACM), tandem auto -HCT with Len maintenance (TAM)  and 
AutoHCT with Len maintenance (AM) for up -front treatment of patients 
with Multiple Myeloma (MM): Primary results from the randomized phase 
III trial of the Blood and Marrow Transplant Clinical Trials Network (BMT 
CTN 0702 – StaMINA Trial). ASH annual meeting 2016 ; Late breaking 
Abstract. Available at: https://ash.confex.com/ash/2016/webprogram/Paper98809.html . 
148. Petrucci T, Raimondo FD, Zamagni E, et al. Upfront single versus 
double autologous stem cell transplantation for newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma: An intergroup, multicenter, phase III study of the European 
Myeloma Network (EMN02/HO95 MM Trial (Oral P resentation). 2016 
ASH annual meeting. Available at: https://ash.confex.com/ash/2016/webprogram/Paper93518.html . 
149. Stadtmauer EA, Pasquini MC, Blackwell B, et al. Autologous 
Transplantation, Consolidation, and Maintenance Therapy in Multiple 
Myeloma: Results of the BMT CTN 0702 Trial. J Clin Oncol 2019;37:589-
597. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30653422.  
150. Cook G, Liakopoulou E, Pearce R, et al. Factors influencing the 
outcome of a second autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) in relapsed 
multiple myeloma: a study from the British Society of Blood and Marrow 
Transplantation Registry. Biol Blood Marrow T ransplant 2011;17:1638 -
1645. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21565277 . 
151. Olin RL, Vogl DT, Porter DL, et al. Second auto -SCT is safe and 
effective salvage therapy for relapsed multiple myeloma. Bone Marrow 
Transplant 2009;43:417 -422. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18850013 . 
152. Burzynski JA, Toro JJ, Patel RC, et al. Toxicity of a second 
autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant in patients with relapsed or recurrent multiple myeloma. Leuk Lymphoma 2009;50:1442 -1447. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19637091 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-64 153. Alvares CL, Davies FE, Horton C, et al. The role of second 
autografts in the management of myeloma at first relapse. 
Haematologica 2006;91:141- 142. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16434386 . 
154. Fenk R, Liese V, Neubauer F, et al. Predictive factors for successful salvage high -dose therapy in patients with multiple myeloma relapsing 
after autologous blood stem cell transplantation. Leuk Lymphoma 2011;52:1455 -1462. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21657961 . 
155. Cook G, Williams C, Brown JM, et al. High- dose chemotherapy plus 
autologous stem -cell transplantation as consolidation therapy in patients 
with relapsed multiple myeloma after previous autologous stem -cell 
transplantation (NCRI Myeloma X Relapse [Intensive trial]): a 
randomised, open- label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2014;15:874 -885. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24948586 . 
156. Cook G, Ashcroft AJ, Cairns DA, et al. The effect of salvage 
autologous stem -cell transplantation on overall survival in patients with 
relapsed multiple myeloma (final results from BSBMT/UKMF Myeloma X 
Relapse [Intensive]): a randomised, open -label, phase 3 trial. Lancet 
Haematol 2016;3:e340- 351. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27374467 . 
157. Kumar S, Mahmood ST, Lacy MQ, et al. Impact of early relapse 
after auto -SCT for multiple myeloma. Bone Marrow Transplant 
2008;42:413 -420. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18587435 . 
158. Vangsted AJ, Klausen TW, Andersen NF, et al. Improved survival of multiple myeloma patients with late relapse after high -dose treatment 
and stem cell support, a population- based study of 348 patients in 
Denmark in 1994 -2004. Eur J Haematol 2010;85:209 -216. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20477864 . 
159. Kumar SK, Dispenzieri A, Fraser R, et al. Early relapse after 
autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation remains a poor prognostic 
factor in multiple myeloma but outcomes have improved over time. Leukemia 2018;32:986- 995. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29263438 . 
160. Kastritis E, Roussou M, Eleutherakis -Papaiakovou E, et al. Early 
Relapse After Autologous Transplant Is Associated With Very Poor 
Survival and Identifies an Ultra -High-Risk Group of Patients With 
Myeloma. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2020;20:445- 452. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32284296 . 
161. Bygrave C, Pawlyn C, Davies F, et al. Early relapse after high- dose 
melphalan autologous stem cell transplant predicts inferior survival and is associated with high disease burden and genetically high -risk disease 
in multiple myeloma. Br J Haematol 2021;193:551- 555. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32524584 . 
162. Auner HW, Szydlo R, Rone A, et al. Salvage autologous stem cell 
transplantation for multiple myeloma relapsing or progressing after up -
front autologous transplantation. Leuk Lymphoma 2013;54:2200 -2204. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23387937 . 
163. Jimenez -Zepeda VH, Mikhael J, Winter A, et al. Second autologous 
stem cell transplantation as salvage therapy for multiple myeloma: 
Impact on progression -free and overall survival. Biol Blood Marrow 
Transplant 2012;18:773 -779. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22062804 . 
164. Sellner L, Heiss C, Benner A, et al. Autologous retransplantation for 
patients with recurrent multiple myeloma: a single- center experience with 
200 patients. Cancer 2013;119:2438 -2446. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23576287 . 
165. Shah N, Ahmed F, Bashir Q, et al. Durable remission with salvage 
second autotransplants in patients with multiple myeloma. Cancer 
2012;118:3549 -3555. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22086552 . 
166. Kyle RA. High -dose therapy in multiple myeloma and primary 
amyloidosis: an overview. Semin Oncol 1999;26:74 -83. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10073564 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-65 167. Kumar A, Loughran T, Alsina M, et al. Management of multiple 
myeloma: a systematic review and critical appraisal of published studies. 
Lancet Oncol 2003;4:293- 304. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12732167 . 
168. Hahn T, Wingard JR, Anderson KC, et al. The role of cytotoxic therapy with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in the therapy of 
multiple myeloma: an evidence- based review. Biol Blood Marrow 
Transplant 2003;9:4- 37. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12533739 . 
169. Zeiser R, Bertz H, Spyridonidis A, et al. Donor lymphocyte infusions 
for multiple myeloma: clinical results and novel perspectives. Bone 
Marrow Transplant 2004;34:923 -928. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15361911 . 
170. van de Donk NW, Kroger N, Hegenbart U, et al. Prognostic factors 
for donor lymphocyte infusions following non- myeloablative allogeneic 
stem cell transplantation in multiple myeloma. Bone Marrow Transplant 2006;37:1135 -1141. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16757975 . 
171. Lokhorst HM, Wu K, Verdonck LF, et al. The occurrence of graft -
versus -host disease is the major predictive factor for response to donor 
lymphocyte infusions in multiple myeloma. Blood 2004;103:4362 -4364. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14976044 . 
172. Lokhorst HM, Schattenberg A, Cornelissen JJ, et al. Donor lymphocyte infusions for relapsed multiple myeloma after allogeneic 
stem -cell transplantation: predictive factors for response and long- term 
outcome. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:3031 -3037. Available a t: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10944138 . 
173. Lokhorst HM, Schattenberg A, Cornelissen JJ, et al. Donor 
leukocyte infusions are effective in relapsed multiple myeloma after 
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Blood 1997;90:4206 -4211. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9354693 . 174. Salama M, Nevill T, Marcellus D, et al. Donor leukocyte infusions for 
multiple myeloma. Bone Marrow Transplant 2000;26:1179 -1184. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11149728 . 
175. Tricot G, Vesole DH, Jagannath S, et al. Graft -versus -myeloma 
effect: proof of principle. Blood 1996;87:1196 -1198. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8562947.  
176. Ayuk F, Shimoni A, Nagler A, et al. Efficacy and toxicity of low -dose 
escalating donor lymphocyte infusion given after reduced intensity 
conditioning allograft for multiple myeloma. Leukemia 2004;18:659- 662. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14671630 . 
177. Munshi NC, Avet -Loiseau H, Anderson KC, et al. A large meta -
analysis establishes the role of MRD negativity in long -term survival 
outcomes in patients with multiple myeloma. Blood Adv 2020;4:5988 -
5999. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33284948 . 
178. Rawstron AC, Child JA, de Tute RM, et al. Minimal residual disease 
assessed by multiparameter flow cytometry in multiple myeloma: impact 
on outcome in the Medical Research Council Myeloma IX Study. J Clin 
Oncol 2013;31:2540 -2547. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23733781 . 
179. Hahn TE, Wallace PK, Fraser R, et al. Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) Assessment before and after Autologous Hematopoietic Cell 
Transplantation (AutoHCT) and Maintenance for Multiple Myeloma (MM): 
Results of the Prognostic Immunophenotyping for Myeloma Response 
(PRIMeR) Study. Biology of Blood and Marrow Transplantation 2019;25:S4- S6. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.12.687 . 
180. Putkonen M, Kairisto V, Juvonen V, et al. Depth of response 
assessed by quantitative ASO -PCR predicts the outcome after stem cell 
transplantation in multiple myeloma. Eur J Haematol 2010;85:416- 423. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20722702 . 
181. Holstein SA, Jung SH, Richardson PG, et al. Updated analysis of 
CALGB (Alliance) 100104 assessing lenalidomide versus placebo 
maintenance after single autologous stem -cell transplantation for multiple PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-66 myeloma: a randomised, double -blind, phase 3 trial. Lancet Haematol 
2017;4:e431 -e442. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28826616 . 
182. McCarthy PL, Holstein SA, Petrucci MT, et al. Lenalidomide 
Maintenance After Autologous Stem -Cell Transplantation in Newly 
Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma: A Meta -Analysis. J Clin Oncol 
2017;35:3279 -3289. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28742454 . 
183. Kneppers E, van der Holt B, Kersten MJ, et al. Lenalidomide 
maintenance after nonmyeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation 
in multiple myeloma is not feasible: results of the HOVON 76 Trial. Blood 
2011;118:2413 -2419. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21690556 . 
184. Alsina M, Becker PS, Zhong X, et al. Lenalidomide maintenance for high- risk multiple myeloma after allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplantation. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 2014;20:1183 -1189. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24769014 . 
185. Palumbo A, Hajek R, Delforge M, et al. Continuous lenalidomide 
treatment for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2012;366:1759 -1769. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22571200 . 
186. Goldschmidt H, Mai EK, Durig J, et al. Response -adapted 
lenalidomide maintenance in newly diagnosed myeloma: results from the phase III GMMG -MM5 trial. Leukemia 2020;34:1853- 1865. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32034285 . 
187. Musto P, Anderson KC, Attal M, et al. Second primary malignancies 
in multiple myeloma: an overview and IMWG consensus. Ann Oncol 
2017;28:228 -245. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27864218 . 
188. Mellqvist UH, Gimsing P, Hjertner O, et al. Bortezomib consolidation 
after autologous stem cell transplantation in multiple myeloma: a Nordic Myeloma Study Group randomized phase 3 trial. Blood 2013;121:4647 -
4654. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23616624 . 
189. Nooka AK, Kaufman JL, Muppidi S, et al. Consolidation and 
maintenance therapy with lenalidomide, bortezomib and dexamethasone 
(RVD) in high -risk myeloma patients. Leukemia 2014;28:690- 693. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24220275 . 
190. Joseph NS, Kaufman JL, Dhodapkar MV, et al. Long -Term Follow -
Up Results of Lenalidomide, Bortezomib, and Dexamethasone Induction 
Therapy and Risk -Adapted Maintenance Approach in Newly Diagnosed 
Multiple Myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2020;38:1928 -1937. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32298201 . 
191. Gay F, Musto P, Rota -Scalabrini D, et al. Carfilzomib with 
cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone or lenalidomide and 
dexamethasone plus autologous transplantation or carfilzomib plus 
lenalidomide and dexamethasone, followed by maintenance with 
carfilzomib plus lenalidomide or lenalidomide alone for patients with 
newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (FORTE): a randomised, open -label, 
phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2021;22:1705 -1720. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34774221 . 
192. Moreau P, Hulin C, Perrot A, et al. Maintenance with daratumumab or observation following treatment with bortezomib, thalidomide, and 
dexamethasone with or without daratumumab and autologous stem -cell 
transplant in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (CASSIOPEIA): an open -label, randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 
2021;22:1378 -1390. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34529931 . 
193. Dimopoulos MA, Gay F, Schjesvold F, et al. Oral ixazomib 
maintenance following autologous stem cell transplantation 
(TOURMALINE -MM3): a double -blind, randomised, placebo- controlled 
phase 3 trial. Lancet 2019;393:253- 264. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30545780 . 
194. Goldschmidt H, Dimopoulos MA, Rajkumar SV, et al. Deepening 
responses associated with improved progression -free survival with PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-67 ixazomib versus placebo as posttransplant maintenance in multiple 
myeloma. Leukemia 2020;34:3019- 3027. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32327729 . 
195. Dimopoulos MA, Spicka I, Quach H, et al. Ixazomib as 
Postinduction Maintenance for Patients With Newly Diagnosed Multiple 
Myeloma Not Undergoing Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation: The 
Phase III TOURMALINE -MM4 Trial. J Clin Oncol 2020;38:4030 -4041. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33021870 . 
196. Dimopoulos MA, Rajkumar SV, Lonial S, et al. Interim Analyses of Overall Survival (OS) from the TOURMALINE MM3 & MM4 Studies of 
Ixazomib Maintenance Following Primary Therapy in Multiple Myeloma 
(MM). Blood 2021;138:1656- 1656. Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood- 2021- 150476 . 
197. Chari A, Martinez -Lopez J, Mateos MV, et al. Daratumumab plus 
carfilzomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed or refractory 
multiple myeloma. Blood 2019;134:421 -431. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31113777 . 
198. Dimopoulos M, Quach H, Mateos MV, et al. Carfilzomib, 
dexamethasone, and daratumumab versus carfilzomib and 
dexamethasone for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma 
(CANDOR): results from a randomised, multicentre, open- label, phase 3 
study. Lancet 2020;396:186- 197. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32682484 . 
199. Usmani SZ, Quach H, Mateos MV, et al. Carfilzomib, 
dexamethasone, and daratumumab versus carfilzomib and 
dexamethasone for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma 
(CANDOR): updated outcomes from a randomised, multicentre, open -
label, phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol 2022;23:65 -76. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34871550 . 
200. Moreau P, Dimopoulos MA, Mikhael J, et al. Isatuximab, 
carfilzomib, and dexamethasone in relapsed multiple myeloma (IKEMA): 
a multicentre, open -label, randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet 2021;397:2361 -2371. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34097854 . 
201. Sonneveld P, Zweegman S, Cavo M, et al. Carfilzomib, 
Pomalidomide, and Dexamethasone As Second -line Therapy for 
Lenalidomide- refractory Multiple Myeloma. Hemasphere 2022;6:e786. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36204691 . 
202. Chari A, Suvannasankha A, Fay JW, et al. Daratumumab plus 
pomalidomide and dexamethasone in relapsed and/or refractory multiple 
myeloma. Blood 2017;130:974- 981. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28637662 . 
203. Dimopoulos MA, Terpos E, Boccadoro M, et al. Daratumumab plus 
pomalidomide and dexamethasone versus pomalidomide and 
dexamethasone alone in previously treated multiple myeloma (APOLLO): 
an open- label, randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2021;22:801 -
812. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34087126.  
204. Siegel DS, Schiller GJ, Samaras C, et al. Pomalidomide, dexamethasone, and daratumumab in relapsed refractory multiple 
myeloma after lenalidomide treatment. Leukemia 2020;34:3286 -3297. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32376855 . 
205. Attal M, Richardson PG, Rajkumar SV, et al. Isatuximab plus 
pomalidomide and low -dose dexamethasone versus pomalidomide and 
low-dose dexamethasone in patients with relapsed and refractory 
multiple myeloma (ICARIA -MM): a randomised, multicentre, open- label, 
phase 3 study. Lancet 2019;394:2096 -2107. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31735560 . 
206. Dimopoulos MA, Leleu X, Moreau P, et al. Isatuximab plus pomalidomide and dexamethasone in relapsed/refractory multiple 
myeloma patients with renal impairment: ICARIA -MM subgroup analysis. 
Leukemia 2021;35:562- 572. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32444867 . 
207. Voorhees PM, Suman VJ, Tuchman SA, et al. A phase I/II study of 
ixazomib, pomalidomide, and dexamethasone for lenalidomide and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-68 proteasome inhibitor refractory multiple myeloma (Alliance A061202). 
Am J Hematol 2021;96:1595- 1603. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34559902 . 
208. Krishnan AY, Kapoor P, Palmer J, et al. A phase I/II study of 
ixazomib (Ix) pomalidomide (POM) dexamethasone (DEX) in relapsed 
refractory (R/R) multiple myeloma: Initial results. Journal of Clinical 
Oncology 2016;34:8008 -8008. Available at: 
http://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2016.34.15_suppl.8008.  
209. Dimopoulos MA, Oriol A, Nahi H, et al. Daratumumab, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone for Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2016;375:1319 -1331. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27705267 . 
210. Bahlis NJ, Dimopoulos MA, White DJ, et al. Daratumumab plus 
lenalidomide and dexamethasone in relapsed/refractory multiple 
myeloma: extended follow -up of POLLUX, a randomized, open- label, 
phase 3 study. Leukemia 2020;34:1875 -1884. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32001798 . 
211. Stewart AK, Rajkumar SV, Dimopoulos MA, et al. Carfilzomib, 
lenalidomide, and dexamethasone for relapsed multiple myeloma. N Engl 
J Med 2015;372:142 -152. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25482145 . 
212. Palumbo A, Chanan- Khan A, Weisel K, et al. Daratumumab, 
Bortezomib, and Dexamethasone for Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 2016;375:754 -766. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27557302 . 
213. Lokhorst HM, Plesner T, Laubach JP, et al. Targeting CD38 with 
Daratumumab Monotherapy in Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2015;373:1207 -1219. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26308596 . 
214. Lonial S, Weiss BM, Usmani SZ, et al. Daratumumab monotherapy 
in patients with treatment -refractory multiple myeloma (SIRIUS): an open- label, randomised, phase 2 trial. Lancet 2016;387:1551 -1560. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26778538 . 
215. Mateos MV, Sonneveld P, Hungria V, et al. Daratumumab, 
Bortezomib, and Dexamethasone Versus Bortezomib and 
Dexamethasone in Patients With Previously Treated Multiple Myeloma: 
Three -year Follow -up of CASTOR. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 
2020;20:509 -518. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32482541 . 
216. Richardson PG, Oriol A, Beksac M, et al. Pomalidomide, 
bortezomib, and dexamethasone for patients with relapsed or refractory 
multiple myeloma previously treated with lenalidomide (OPTIMISMM): a 
randomised, open- label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2019;20:781 -794. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31097405 . 
217. Dimopoulos M, Weisel K, Moreau P, et al. Pomalidomide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone for multiple myeloma previously treated 
with lenalidomide (OPTIMISMM): outcomes by prior treatment at first 
relapse. Leukemia 2021;35:1722- 1731. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32895455 . 
218. Grosicki S, Simonova M, Spicka I, et al. Once- per-week selinexor, 
bortezomib, and dexamethasone versus twice -per-week bortezomib and 
dexamethasone in patients with multiple myeloma (BOSTON): a 
randomised, open- label, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2020;396:1563 -1573. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33189178 . 
219. Dimopoulos MA, Dytfeld D, Grosicki S, et al. Elotuzumab plus Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone for Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2018;379:1811 -1822. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30403938 . 
220. Dimopoulos MA, Dytfeld D, Grosicki S, et al. Elotuzumab Plus 
Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone for Relapsed/Refractory Multiple 
Myeloma: Final Overall Survival Analysis From the Randomized Phase II 
ELOQUENT -3 Trial. J Clin Oncol 2023;41:568- 578. Availabl e at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35960908 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-69 221. Dimopoulos MA, Moreau P, Palumbo A, et al. Carfilzomib and 
dexamethasone versus bortezomib and dexamethasone for patients with 
relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (ENDEAVOR): a randomised, 
phase 3, open -label, multicentre study. Lancet Oncol 2016; 17:27 -38. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26671818 . 
222. Dimopoulos MA, Goldschmidt H, Niesvizky R, et al. Carfilzomib or 
bortezomib in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (ENDEAVOR): an 
interim overall survival analysis of an open -label, randomised, phase 3 
trial. Lancet Oncol 2017;18:1327- 1337. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28843768 . 
223. Lonial S, Dimopoulos M, Palumbo A, et al. Elotuzumab Therapy for 
Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 2015;373:621-
631. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26035255.  
224. Dimopoulos MA, Lonial S, White D, et al. Elotuzumab plus 
lenalidomide/dexamethasone for relapsed or refractory multiple 
myeloma: ELOQUENT -2 follow -up and post -hoc analyses on 
progression- free survival and tumour growth. Br J Haematol 
2017;178:896 -905. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28677826 . 
225. Dimopoulos MA, Lonial S, White D, et al. Elotuzumab, lenalidomide, 
and dexamethasone in RRMM: final overall survival results from the 
phase 3 randomized ELOQUENT -2 study. Blood Cancer J 2020;10:91. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32887873 . 
226. Moreau P, Masszi T, Grzasko N, et al. Oral Ixazomib, Lenalidomide, 
and Dexamethasone for Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2016;374:1621 -1634. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27119237 . 
227. Davies FE, Wu P, Jenner M, et al. The combination of 
cyclophosphamide, velcade and dexamethasone induces high response rates with comparable toxicity to velcade alone and velcade plus 
dexamethasone. Haematologica 2007;92:1149 -1150. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17650451 . 228. Kropff M, Bisping G, Schuck E, et al. Bortezomib in combination 
with intermediate -dose dexamethasone and continuous low -dose oral 
cyclophosphamide for relapsed multiple myeloma. Br J Haematol 2007;138:330 -337. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17614819 . 
229. Richardson PG, Weller E, Jagannath S, et al. Multicenter, phase I, 
dose -escalation trial of lenalidomide plus bortezomib for relapsed and 
relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:5713 -5719. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19786667 . 
230. Richardson PG, Xie W, Jagannath S, et al. A phase 2 trial of 
lenalidomide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed 
and relapsed/refractory myeloma. Blood 2014;123:1461- 1469. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24429336.  
231. Yong KL, Hinsley S, Auner HW, et al. Carfilzomib or bortezomib in 
combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone followed by 
carfilzomib maintenance for patients with multiple myeloma after one 
prior therapy: results from a multicenter, phase II,  randomized, controlled 
trial (MUKfive). Haematologica 2021;106:2694- 2706. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33910333 . 
232. Puertas B, Gonzalez -Calle V, Sureda A, et al. Randomized phase II 
study of weekly carfilzomib 70 mg/m(2) and dexamethasone with or 
without cyclophosphamide in relapsed and/or refractory multiple 
myeloma patients. Haematologica 2023;108:2753- 2763. Avai lable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37102598 . 
233. Jakubowiak A, Offidani M, Pegourie B, et al. Randomized phase 2 study: elotuzumab plus bortezomib/dexamethasone vs 
bortezomib/dexamethasone for relapsed/refractory MM. Blood 
2016;127:2833 -2840. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27091875 . 
234. Kumar SK, Buadi FK, LaPlant B, et al. Phase 1/2 trial of ixazomib, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously 
untreated symptomatic multiple myeloma. Blood Cancer J 2018;8:70. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30061664 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-70 235. Kumar SK, Grzasko N, Delimpasi S, et al. Phase 2 study of all -oral 
ixazomib, cyclophosphamide and low -dose dexamethasone for 
relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Br J Haematol 2019;184:536- 546. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30460684 . 
236. Morgan GJ, Schey SA, Wu P, et al. Lenalidomide (Revlimid), in 
combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone (RCD), is an 
effective and tolerated regimen for myeloma patients. Br J Haematol 
2007;137:268 -269. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17408469 . 
237. Baz RC, Martin TG, 3rd, Lin HY, et al. Randomized multicenter phase 2 study of pomalidomide, cyclophosphamide, and dexamethasone 
in relapsed refractory myeloma. Blood 2016;127:2561 -2568. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26932802 . 
238. Garderet L, Polge E, Gueye mS, et al. Pomalidomide, 
Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone for Relapsed/Refractory 
Multiple Myeloma: A Retrospective Single Center Experience. Blood 
2015;126:1858 -1858. Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.V126.23.1858.1858 . 
239. Orlowski RZ, Nagler A, Sonneveld P, et al. Randomized phase III study of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin plus bortezomib compared with 
bortezomib alone in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma: 
combination therapy improves time to progression. J Cli n Oncol 
2007;25:3892 -3901. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17679727 . 
240. Mikhael JR, Belch AR, Prince HM, et al. High response rate to 
bortezomib with or without dexamethasone in patients with relapsed or 
refractory multiple myeloma: results of a global phase 3b expanded 
access program. Br J Haematol 2009;144:169 -175. Avai lable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19036114 . 
241. Jagannath S, Barlogie B, Berenson J, et al. A phase 2 study of two doses of bortezomib in relapsed or refractory myeloma. Br J Haematol 
2004;127:165 -172. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15461622 . 242. Jagannath S, Richardson PG, Barlogie B, et al. Bortezomib in 
combination with dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with 
relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma with less than optimal 
response to bortezomib alone. Haematologica 2006;91:929- 934. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16818280 . 
243. Dimopoulos M, Spencer A, Attal M, et al. Lenalidomide plus 
dexamethasone for relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. N Engl J 
Med 2007;357:2123 -2132. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18032762 . 
244. Weber DM, Chen C, Niesvizky R, et al. Lenalidomide plus 
dexamethasone for relapsed multiple myeloma in North America. N Engl 
J Med 2007;357:2133 -2142. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18032763 . 
245. Mikhael JR, Reeder CB, Libby EN, et al. Phase Ib/II trial of 
CYKLONE (cyclophosphamide, carfilzomib, thalidomide and 
dexamethasone) for newly diagnosed myeloma. Br J Haematol 
2015;169:219 -227. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25683772 . 
246. Moreau P, Mateos MV, Berenson JR, et al. Once weekly versus twice weekly carfilzomib dosing in patients with relapsed and refractory 
multiple myeloma (A.R.R.O.W.): interim analysis results of a randomised, 
phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol 2018;19:953 -964. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29866475 . 
247. Gasparetto C, Schiller GJ, Tuchman SA, et al. Once weekly selinexor, carfilzomib and dexamethasone in carfilzomib non -refractory 
multiple myeloma patients. Br J Cancer 2022;126:718 -725. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34802051 . 
248. Schiller GJ, Tuchman SA, Callander N, et al. Once Weekly 
Selinexor, Carfilzomib and Dexamethasone (XKd) in Triple Class 
Refractory Multiple Myeloma. Blood 2022;140:10050- 10053. Available 
at: https://doi.org/10.1182/blood -2022- 158011 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-71 249. Kumar S, Kaufman JL, Gasparetto C, et al. Efficacy of venetoclax 
as targeted therapy for relapsed/refractory t(11;14) multiple myeloma. 
Blood 2017;130:2401 -2409. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29018077 . 
250. Basali D, Chakraborty R, Rybicki L, et al. Real -world data on safety 
and efficacy of venetoclax -based regimens in relapsed/refractory t(11;14) 
multiple myeloma. Br J Haematol 2020. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32012228 . 
251. Kaufman JL, Gasparetto C, Schjesvold FH, et al. Targeting BCL -2 
with venetoclax and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed/refractory 
t(11;14) multiple myeloma. Am J Hematol 2021;96:418 -427. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33368455 . 
252. Bahlis NJ, Baz R, Harrison SJ, et al. Phase I Study of Venetoclax 
Plus Daratumumab and Dexamethasone, With or Without Bortezomib, in 
Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma With and Without 
t(11;14). J Clin Oncol 2021;39:3602- 3612. Avail able at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34388020 . 
253. Costa LJ, Stadtmauer EA, Morgan G, et al. Phase 2 Study of Venetoclax Plus Carfilzomib and Dexamethasone in Patients with 
Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma. Blood 2018;132:303. Available 
at: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006497119363529.  
254. Abuelgasim KA, Alherz N, Alhejazi A, Damlaj M. Venetoclax in 
combination with carfilzomib and dexamethasone in relapsed/refractory 
multiple myeloma harboring t(11,14)(q13;q32): two case reports and a 
review of the literature. J Med Case Rep 2020;14:54 . Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32321588 . 
255. Gorgun G, Calabrese E, Soydan E, et al. Immunomodulatory effects 
of lenalidomide and pomalidomide on interaction of tumor and bone 
marrow accessory cells in multiple myeloma. Blood 2010;116:3227 -3237. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20651070 . 256. Miguel JS, Weisel K, Moreau P, et al. Pomalidomide plus low -dose 
dexamethasone versus high- dose dexamethasone alone for patients with 
relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (MM -003): a randomised, 
open- label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2013;14:1055- 1066. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24007748 . 
257. Dimopoulos MA, Palumbo A, Weisel K, et al. Safety and efficacy in 
the stratus (MM -010) trial, a single- arm phase 3b study evaluating 
pomalidomide + low -dose dexamethasone in patients with refractory or 
relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. Vol. 124; 2014:80- 80. 
Available at: http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/124/21/80 . 
258. Leleu X, Attal M, Arnulf B, et al. Pomalidomide plus low -dose 
dexamethasone is active and well tolerated in bortezomib and 
lenalidomide -refractory multiple myeloma: Intergroupe Francophone du 
Myelome 2009 -02. Blood 2013;121:1968 -1975. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23319574 . 
259. Lacy MQ, Allred JB, Gertz MA, et al. Pomalidomide plus low -dose 
dexamethasone in myeloma refractory to both bortezomib and 
lenalidomide: comparison of 2 dosing strategies in dual -refractory 
disease. Blood 2011;118:2970- 2975. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21690557 . 
260. White D, Chen C, Baljevic M, et al. Oral selinexor, pomalidomide, 
and dexamethasone (XPd) at recommended phase 2 dose in relapsed 
refractory multiple myeloma (MM). Journal of Clinical Oncology 
2021;39:8018 -8018. Available at: 
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2021.39.15_suppl.8018.  
261. Lazzarino M, Corso A, Barbarano L, et al. DCEP (dexamethasone, 
cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin) is an effective regimen for 
peripheral blood stem cell collection in multiple myeloma. Bone Marrow 
Transplant 2001;28:835 -839. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11781643 . 
262. Dadacaridou M, Papanicolaou X, Maltesas D, et al. 
Dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, etoposide and cisplatin (DCEP) for PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-72 relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma patients. J BUON 2007;12:41-
44. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17436400.  
263. Griffin PT, Ho VQ, Fulp W, et al. A comparison of salvage infusional 
chemotherapy regimens for recurrent/refractory multiple myeloma. Cancer 2015;121:3622- 3630. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26149422 . 
264. Lee CK, Barlogie B, Munshi N, et al. DTPACE: an effective, novel 
combination chemotherapy with thalidomide for previously treated 
patients with myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:2732- 2739. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12860952 . 
265. Srikanth M, Davies FE, Wu P, et al. Survival and outcome of 
blastoid variant myeloma following treatment with the novel thalidomide 
containing regime DT -PACE. Eur J Haematol 2008;81:432- 436. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18691254 . 
266. Buda G, Orciuolo E, Galimberti S, et al. VDTPACE  As salvage 
therapy for heavily pretreated MM patients. Blood 2013;122:5377 -5377. 
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.V122.21.5377.5377 . 
267. Andoh S, Togano T, Itoi S, et al. Efficacy and Safety of VTD -PACE 
Regimen in Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma. Clinical 
Lymphoma Myeloma and Leukemia 2017;17:e57. Available at: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.clml.2017.03.104.  
268. Lakshman A, Singh PP, Rajkumar SV, et al. Efficacy of VDT PACE -
like regimens in treatment of relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Am J 
Hematol 2018;93:179- 186. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29067723 . 
269. Lesokhin AM, Tomasson MH, Arnulf B, et al. Elranatamab in 
relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma: phase 2 MagnetisMM -3 trial 
results. Nat Med 2023;29:2259- 2267. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37582952 . 
270. Chari A, Minnema MC, Berdeja JG, et al. Talquetamab, a T -Cell-
Redirecting GPRC5D Bispecific Antibody for Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 2022;387:2232 -2244. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36507686 . 
271. Moreau P, Garfall AL, van de Donk N, et al. Teclistamab in 
Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 2022;387:495-
505. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35661166.  
272. Munshi NC, Anderson LD, Jr., Shah N, et al. Idecabtagene 
Vicleucel in Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 
2021;384:705 -716. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33626253 . 
273. Berdeja JG, Madduri D, Usmani SZ, et al. Ciltacabtagene autoleucel, a B -cell maturation antigen -directed chimeric antigen 
receptor T- cell therapy in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple 
myeloma (CARTITUDE -1): a phase 1b/2 open -label study. La ncet 
2021;398:314 -324. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34175021 . 
274. Martin T, Usmani SZ, Berdeja JG, et al. Updated Results from CARTITUDE -1: Phase 1b/2Study of Ciltacabtagene Autoleucel, a B -Cell 
Maturation Antigen -Directed Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy, 
in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myelom a. Blood 
2021;138:549 -549. Available at: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006497121025416.  
275. Knop S, Straka C, Haen M, et al. The efficacy and toxicity of bendamustine in recurrent multiple myeloma after high- dose 
chemotherapy. Haematologica 2005;90:1287 -1288. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16154860 . 
276. Michael M, Bruns I, Bolke E, et al. Bendamustine in patients with 
relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. Eur J Med Res 2010;15:13 -19. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20159666 . 
277. Lenhard RE, Jr., Oken MM, Barnes JM, et al. High -dose 
cyclophosphamide. An effective treatment for advanced refractory 
multiple myeloma. Cancer 1984;53:1456- 1460. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6697291.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-73 278. Offidani M, Corvatta L, Maracci L, et al. Efficacy and tolerability of 
bendamustine, bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with 
relapsed- refractory multiple myeloma: a phase II study. Blood Cancer J 
2013;3:e162. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24270324 . 
279. Gay F, Gunther A, Offidani M, et al. Carfilzomib, bendamustine, and 
dexamethasone in patients with advanced multiple myeloma: The 
EMN09 phase 1/2 study of the European Myeloma Network. Cancer 
2021;127:3413 -3421. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34181755 . 
280. Lentzsch S, O'Sullivan A, Kennedy RC, et al. Combination of bendamustine, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (BLD) in patients with 
relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma is feasible and highly effective: 
results of phase 1/2 open- label, dose escalation study. Blood 
2012;119:4608 -4613. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22451423 . 
281. Rivell GL, Brunson CY, Milligan L, et al. Effectiveness and safety of high- dose cyclophosphamide as salvage therapy for high -risk multiple 
myeloma and plasma cell leukemia refractory to new biological agents. Am J Hematol 2011;86:699- 701. Available at : 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21630309 . 
282. Shank BR, Primeaux B, Yeung EK, et al. Hyperfractionated Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone Alone or in Combination with 
Daratumumab and/or Carfilzomib for the Treatment of Relapsed or 
Refractory Multiple Myeloma: A Single -Center Retrospective Analysi s. 
Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2023;23:279 -290. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36797154 . 
283. Chari A, Vogl DT, Gavriatopoulou M, et al. Oral Selinexor -
Dexamethasone for Triple- Class Refractory Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J 
Med 2019;381:727 -738. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31433920 . 
284. Lonial S, Lee HC, Badros A, et al. Belantamab mafodotin for 
relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (DREAMM -2): a two -arm, randomised, open- label, phase 2 study. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:207 -221. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31859245 . 
285. Berenson JR, Lichtenstein A, Porter L, et al. Long -term pamidronate 
treatment of advanced multiple myeloma patients reduces skeletal 
events. Myeloma Aredia Study Group. J Clin Oncol 1998;16:593 -602. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9469347 . 
286. Berenson JR, Lichtenstein A, Porter L, et al. Efficacy of 
pamidronate in reducing skeletal events in patients with advanced 
multiple myeloma. Myeloma Aredia Study Group. N Engl J Med 
1996;334:488 -493. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8559201.  
287. Major P, Lortholary A, Hon J, et al. Zoledronic acid is superior to 
pamidronate in the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy: a pooled 
analysis of two randomized, controlled clinical trials. J Clin Oncol 
2001;19:558 -567. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11208851 . 
288. Zervas K, Verrou E, Teleioudis Z, et al. Incidence, risk factors and management of osteonecrosis of the jaw in patients with multiple 
myeloma: a single- centre experience in 303 patients. Br J Haematol 
2006;134:620 -623. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16889620 . 
289. Morgan GJ, Davies FE, Gregory WM, et al. First -line treatment with 
zoledronic acid as compared with clodronic acid in multiple myeloma 
(MRC Myeloma IX): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 
2010;376:1989 -1999. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21131037 . 
290. Jackson GH, Morgan GJ, Davies FE, et al. Osteonecrosis of the jaw and renal safety in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: 
Medical Research Council Myeloma IX Study results. Br J Haematol 
2014;166:109 -117. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24673708 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-74 291. Morgan GJ, Davies FE, Gregory WM, et al. Long- term follow -up of 
MRC Myeloma IX trial: Survival outcomes with bisphosphonate and 
thalidomide treatment. Clin Cancer Res 2013;19:6030- 6038. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23995858.  
292. Mhaskar R, Redzepovic J, Wheatley K, et al. Bisphosphonates in multiple myeloma: a network meta- analysis. Cochrane Database Syst 
Rev 2012;5:CD003188. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22592688 . 
293. Himelstein AL, Foster JC, Khatcheressian JL, et al. Effect of 
Longer -Interval vs Standard Dosing of Zoledronic Acid on Skeletal 
Events in Patients With Bone Metastases: A Randomized Clinical Trial. 
JAMA 2017;317:48 -58. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28030702 . 
294. Raje N, Terpos E, Willenbacher W, et al. Denosumab versus zoledronic acid in bone disease treatment of newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma: an international, double -blind, double -dummy, randomised, 
controlled, phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol 2018;19:370 -381. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29429912 . 
295. Major PP, Coleman RE. Zoledronic acid in the treatment of 
hypercalcemia of malignancy: results of the international clinical 
development program. Semin Oncol 2001;28:17- 24. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11346861 . 
296. Pecherstorfer M, Steinhauer EU, Rizzoli R, et al. Efficacy and safety 
of ibandronate in the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy: a 
randomized multicentric comparison to pamidronate. Support Care 
Cancer 2003;11:539 -547. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12783289 . 
297. Resende Salgado L, Wang S, Adler A, et al. The Safety Profile of Concurrent Therapy for Multiple Myeloma in the Modern Era. Adv Radiat 
Oncol 2019;4:112 -117. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30706018 . 298. Guerini AE, Tucci A, Alongi F, et al. RR Myelo POINT: A 
Retrospective Single- Center Study Assessing the Role of Radiotherapy 
in the Management of Multiple Myeloma and Possible Interactions with Concurrent Systemic Treatment. Cancers (Basel) 2022;14. A vailable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35565401 . 
299. Elhammali A, Amini B, Ludmir EB, et al. New paradigm for radiation 
in multiple myeloma: lower yet effective dose to avoid radiation toxicity. 
Haematologica 2020;105:e355- e357. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31919088 . 
300. Lindsley H, Teller D, Noonan B, et al. Hyperviscosity syndrome in 
multiple myeloma. A reversible, concentration- dependent aggregation of 
the myeloma protein. Am J Med 1973;54:682 -688. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4701949.  
301. Ludwig H, Fritz E, Kotzmann H, et al. Erythropoietin treatment of anemia associated with multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 1990;322:1693 -
1699. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2342535 . 
302. Osterborg A, Boogaerts MA, Cimino R, et al. Recombinant human erythropoietin in transfusion- dependent anemic patients with multiple 
myeloma and non -Hodgkin's lymphoma --a randomized multicenter study. 
The European Study Group of Erythropoietin (Epoetin  Beta) Treatment in 
Multiple Myeloma and Non- Hodgkin's Lymphoma. Blood 1996;87:2675-
2682. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8639883.  
303. Blade J, Fernandez -Llama P, Bosch F, et al. Renal failure in 
multiple myeloma: presenting features and predictors of outcome in 94 
patients from a single institution. Arch Intern Med 1998;158:1889 -1893. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9759684 . 
304. Knudsen LM, Hippe E, Hjorth M, et al. Renal function in newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma --a demographic study of 1353 patients. The 
Nordic Myeloma Study Group. Eur J Haematol 1994;53:207 -212. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7957804 . 
305. Knudsen LM, Hjorth M, Hippe E. Renal failure in multiple myeloma: reversibility and impact on the prognosis. Nordic Myeloma Study Group. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-75 Eur J Haematol 2000;65:175 -181. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11007053 . 
306. Dimopoulos MA, Roussou M, Gavriatopoulou M, et al. Bortezomib -
based triplets are associated with a high probability of dialysis 
independence and rapid renal recovery in newly diagnosed myeloma 
patients with severe renal failure or those requiring dial ysis. Am J 
Hematol 2016;91:499- 502. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26890495 . 
307. Monge J, Solomon RS, Flicker K, et al. Daratumumab in Patients 
with Multiple Myeloma and Renal Impairment - Real-World Data from a 
Single -Center Institution. Blood 2019;134:5563- 5563. Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood- 2019- 127697 . 
308. Jeyaraman P, Bhasin A, Dayal N, et al. Daratumumab in dialysis -
dependent multiple myeloma. Blood Res 2020;55:65 -67. Available at:  
309. Kuzume A, Tabata R, Terao T, et al. Safety and efficacy of 
daratumumab in patients with multiple myeloma and severe renal failure. 
British Journal of Haematology 2021;193:e33 -e36. Available at: 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/bjh.17412.  
310. Niewinski M, Chin -Hon J, Akerman M, et al. Safety and efficacy of 
daratumumab use in patients with renal impairment and hemodialysis. 
Journal of Clinical Oncology 2022;40:8026- 8026. Available at: 
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2022.40.16_suppl.8026.  
311. Dimopoulos MA, Sonneveld P, Leung N, et al. International 
Myeloma Working Group Recommendations for the Diagnosis and 
Management of Myeloma -Related Renal Impairment. J Clin Oncol 
2016;34:1544 -1557. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26976420 . 
312. Dimopoulos MA, Christoulas D, Roussou M, et al. Lenalidomide and 
dexamethasone for the treatment of refractory/relapsed multiple 
myeloma: dosing of lenalidomide according to renal function and effect 
on renal impairment. Eur J Haematol 2010;85:1- 5. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20192988 . 313. Dimopoulos M, Weisel K, van de Donk N, et al. Pomalidomide Plus 
Low-Dose Dexamethasone in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Multiple 
Myeloma and Renal Impairment: Results From a Phase II Trial. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:2035 -2043. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29394124 . 
314. Leung N, Bridoux F, Hutchison CA, et al. Monoclonal gammopathy 
of renal significance: when MGUS is no longer undetermined or 
insignificant. Blood 2012;120:4292- 4295. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23047823 . 
315. Mani AM, Devasia AJ, Nair A, et al. Monoclonal Gammopathies of 
'Neurological Significance': Paraproteinemic Neuropathies. Can J Neurol 
Sci 2021;48:616 -625. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33397535 . 
316. Castillo JJ, Callander NS, Baljevic M, et al. The evaluation and 
management of monoclonal gammopathy of renal significance and 
monoclonal gammopathy of neurological significance. Am J Hematol 
2021;96:846 -853. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33709474 . 
317. Varettoni M, Arcaini L, Zibellini S, et al. Prevalence and clinical significance of the MYD88 (L265P) somatic mutation in Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia and related lymphoid neoplasms. Blood 
2013;121:2522 -2528. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23355535 . 
318. Xu L, Hunter ZR, Yang G, et al. Detection of MYD88 L265P in peripheral blood of patients with Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia and 
IgM monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. Leukemia 
2014;28:1698 -1704. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24509637 . 
319. Hunter ZR, Xu L, Yang G, et al. The genomic landscape of 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is characterized by highly recurring 
MYD88 and WHIM -like CXCR4 mutations, and small somatic deletions 
associated with B -cell lymphomagenesis. Blood 2014;123:1637 -1646. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24366360 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2026 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version  2.2026 
Multiple Myeloma  
 
MS-76 320. Treon SP, Cao Y, Xu L, et al. Somatic mutations in MYD88 and 
CXCR4 are determinants of clinical presentation and overall survival in 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Blood 2014;123:2791- 2796. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24553177.  
321. Bagratuni T, Ntanasis -Stathopoulos I, Gavriatopoulou M, et al. 
Detection of MYD88 and CXCR4 mutations in cell -free DNA of patients 
with IgM monoclonal gammopathies. Leukemia 2018;32:2617 -2625. 
Available at:  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30026568 . 
322. Xu L, Hunter ZR, Tsakmaklis N, et al. Clonal architecture of CXCR4 
WHIM -like mutations in Waldenstrom Macroglobulinaemia. Br J 
Haematol 2016;172:735 -744. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26659815 . 
323. Ballester LY, Loghavi S, Kanagal -Shamanna R, et al. Clinical 
Validation of a CXCR4 Mutation Screening Assay for Waldenstrom 
Macroglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2016;16:395 -403 
e391. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27268124 . 
324. Bardwick PA, Zvaifler NJ, Gill GN, et al. Plasma cell dyscrasia with 
polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, M protein, and skin 
changes: the POEMS syndrome. Report on two cases and a review of 
the literature. Medicine (Baltimore) 1980;59:311- 322. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6248720.  
325. Dispenzieri A. POEMS Syndrome: 2019 Update on diagnosis, risk -
stratification, and management. Am J Hematol 2019;94:812- 827. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31012139 . 
326. Khouri J, Nakashima M, Wong S. Update on the Diagnosis and 
Treatment of POEMS (Polyneuropathy, Organomegaly, Endocrinopathy, 
Monoclonal Gammopathy, and Skin Changes) Syndrome: A Review. 
JAMA Oncol 2021;7:1383- 1391. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34081097 . 
 
  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:48:53 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.