Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)Myelodysplastic  
Syndromes
Version 2.2025 — January 17, 2025
ContinueNCCN.org
NCCN Guidelines for Patients® available at www.nccn.org/patientsNCCN recognizes the importance of clinical trials and encourages participation when applicable and available. 
Trials should be designed to maximize inclusiveness and broad representative enrollment.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
*Peter L. Greenberg, MD/Chair ‡ Þ 
Stanford Cancer Institute
Richard M. Stone, MD/Vice Chair ‡ † 
Dana-Farber/Brigham and  
Women’s Cancer Center
Yasmin Abaza, MD ‡ 
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer 
Center of Northwestern University
Aref Al-Kali, MD ‡ 
Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center
Sarah Anand, MD ‡ † ξ 
University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center
Brian Ball, MD, MS ‡  
City of Hope National Medical Center
John M. Bennett, MD Þ † ≠  
University of Rochester
Uma Borate, MD, MSc ‡ 
The Ohio State University Comprehensive 
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  
and Solove Research Institute
Andrew M. Brunner, MD † ‡ 
Mass General Cancer Center
Wanxing Chai-Ho, MD ‡  
UCLA Jonsson 
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Peter Curtin, MD ‡ † ξ 
City of Hope National Medical Center
Amy E. DeZern, MD, MHS † ‡ 
Johns Hopkins  
Kimmel Cancer Center
Karin Gaensler, MD ‡  
UCSF Helen Diller Family  
Comprehensive Cancer CenterZhubin Gahvari, MD, MS † ‡ ξ  
University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center
Guillermo Garcia-Manero, MD ‡ † 
The University of Texas  
MD Anderson Cancer Center
Elizabeth A. Griffiths, MD Þ † ‡  
Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center
Tamanna Haque, MD ‡  
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center 
Meagan Jacoby, MD, PhD † ‡ ξ 
Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital 
and Washington University School of Medicine
Brian A. Jonas, MD, PhD † ‡  
UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center
Sioban Keel, MD ‡  
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
Rashmi Khanal, MD † ‡ 
Fox Chase Cancer Center
Ashwin Kishtagari, MD ‡  
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center 
Yazan Madanat, MD ‡ Þ 
UT Southwestern Simmons  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Lori J. Maness, MD ‡  
Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
Shannon R. McCurdy, MD † 
Abramson Cancer Center  
at the University of Pennsylvania
Christine McMahon, MD ‡  
University of Colorado Cancer Center
Olatoyosi Odenike, MD ‡ †  
The UChicago Medicine  
Comprehensive Cancer CenterAfaf Osman, MD ‡ 
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of Utah
Vishnu V. Reddy, MD ≠ †  
O'Neal Comprehensive  
Cancer Center at UAB
David A. Sallman, MD ‡ †  
Moffitt Cancer Center
Hamid Sayar, MD, MSc ‡ 
Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon 
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Rory Shallis, MD ‡ 
Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital
Abhay Singh, MD, MPH ‡  
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/  
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center  
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
Tiffany Tanaka, MD ‡ † ξ 
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
Swapna Thota, MD ‡  
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital/The 
University of Tennessee Health Science Center
NCCN
Cindy Hochstetler, PhD
Emily Kovach
Jamie Nguyen, PharmD
Continue
NCCN Guidelines Panel Disclosures‡ Hematology
Þ Internal medicine
† Medical oncology 
≠ Pathology
ξ Transplantation
* Discussion section writing committeePLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way . The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may 
not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2025.The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way . The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may 
not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2025.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
NCCN Myelodysplastic Syndromes Panel Members
Summary of the Guidelines Updates
• Initial Evaluation (MDS-1)
• Spectrum of Indolent Myeloid Hematopoietic Disorders (MDS-2)
• Additional Testing and Classification (MDS-3)
• Management of Lower-Risk Disease (IPSS-R Very-Low-, Low-, Intermediate-Risk Disease (MDS-4)
• Management of Higher-Risk Disease (IPSS-R Intermediate-, High-, Very-High-Risk Disease (MDS-7)
• Supportive Care (MDS-8)
• Pathologic-Morphologic Classifications of Myelodysplastic Neoplasms 2023 (MDS-A  [1 of 5])
• Clinical Principles of Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm (MDS/MPN) Overlap Neoplasms 
(MDS-A [2 of 5])
• MDS/MPN Classification (MDS-A [3 of 5])
• Genetic/Cytogenetic Abnormalities in AML and MDS (MDS-A [4 of 5])
• Prognostic Scoring Systems (MDS-B)
• Genes Frequently Somatically Mutated in MDS (MDS-C)
• Genetic Familial High-Risk Assessment: Hereditary Myeloid Malignancy Predisposition Syndromes 
(MDS-D)
• Gene Mutations Associated with Hereditary Myeloid Malignancy Predisposition Syndromes (MDS-E)
• Recommendations for Flow Cytometry (MDS-F)Find an NCCN Member Institution: 
https://www.nccn.org/home/member-
institutions .
NCCN Categories of Evidence and 
Consensus: All recommendations 
are category 2A unless otherwise 
indicated.
See NCCN Categories of Evidence  
and Consensus .
NCCN Categories of Preference : 
All recommendations are considered 
appropriate.
See NCCN Categories of 
Preference .
Abbreviations (ABBR-1)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESContinuedUpdates in Version 2.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Myelodysplastic Syndromes from Version 1.2025 include:
MDS-7A
• Footnote zz modified: Some emerging data have shown efficacy of novel agents, including venetoclax in combination with HMA s with or without ivosidenib to target  
or targeted  mIDH1/2 inhibitors for cytoreduction for  in patients with myeloid malignancies including  higher-risk MDS (DiNardo C, et al. N Engl J Med 2018;378:2386-
2398 Garcia JS, et al. Blood 2023;142:Abstract 319. Lachowiez CA, et al. Blood Cancer Discov 2023;4:276-293 ) who have HMA-refractory disease . When used as 
cytoreduction for MDS in combination with an HMA, venetoclax has been ef fectively given for 14 days in monthly courses (Garcia JS, et al. Blood 2023;142:Abstract 
319). Emerging data have also shown utility of olutasidenib for treating patients with IDH1 mutations (Cortes J, et al. Blood 2023;142:Abstract 1872). Repeat ing the 
bone  of marrow evaluation after 1 to 2 cycles is important to clarify the recovery of hematopoiesis and potential requirement for further therapy . 
MS-1
• The discussion section has been updated to reflect the changes in the algorithm.
Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Myelodysplastic Syndromes from Version 3.2024 include:
General
• References updated throughout the Guidelines.
• "Or relapse" added to "no response" throughout algorithm. 
• Footnote ee added to "or relapse" throughout algorithm: Reevaluation with bone marrow and/or molecular testing is recommended. 
MDS-1
• Initial evaluation, bullet 4, previous bullet moved as last sentence: Genetic testing for somatic mutations (ie acquired mutations) in genes associated 
with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).
MDS-1A
• Footnote b modified: See Table of Common Cytogenetic Abnormalities (MDS-A [4 of 5]). (Also for footnote d).
• Footnote c added: If MDS is read out by the evaluating pathologist, reflex testing including cytogenetics and molecular testing should be performed as a 
standard practice. A unified report that includes molecular-genetic results with pathological description is required for appropriate diagnosis and therapy 
selection. See Table of Common Cytogenetic Abnormalities in MDS (MDS-A [4 of 5]).
MDS-2
• Footnote p, last sentences added: The CHRS may have a role in clinical decision-making but requires confirmatory evidence to help assess its efficacy. 
Another method has also been reported to aid in the prediction of clonal hematopoiesis to myeloid neoplasm.
MDS-3
• Footnote t, sentence removed: All full siblings should be evaluated for HLA match prior to unrelated donor match.
• Footnote u modified: Patients with CMML with PDGFRB rearrangement may have disease that responds well to tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as 
imatinib mesylate. Some patients may have somatic copy neutral loss of heterzygosity (cnLOH), especially those encompassing JAK2 mutations.  
CMML with eosinophilia as well as other myeloid and lymphoid malignancies with rearrangement of PDGFRB (locus 5q32) have constitutive activation 
of the tyrosine kinase receptor. Spleno- or hepato-megaly are common clinical features. Such diseases are considered unique entities by WHO and are 
exquisitely sensitive to imatinib (Shomali W, et al. Am J Hematol 2022;97:129-148). (See MDS/MPN Classification Table on MDS A [3 of 5]). 
MDS-4
• Treatment, symptomatic anemia, node modified: del(5q) ± one other cytogenetic abnormality (except those involving chromosome 7) IPSS Low/
Intermediate-1  (Also for MDS-5).
• Clinically relevant thrombocytopenia or neutropenia, second-line treatment, regimens added:
Ivosidenib (if mutant IDH1 [mIDH1])(category 2B)
Olutasidenib (if mIDH1)(category 2B)
• Clinically relevant thrombocytopenia or neutropenia, rightmost column, If mIDH1, regimen added: Olutasidenib (category 2B) if IDH1 inhibitor not 
previously used.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESContinuedMDS-5
• Treatment options revised to include preference stratification. (Also for MDS-6)
• MDS-SF3B1 (low blasts); No response or relapse and Serum EPO >500mU/mL; Preferred:
Regimen modified: Imetelstat (if not previously used)
Regimen added: Luspatercept-aamt (category 1)(if not previously used).
• MDS-SF3B1 (low blasts), last column, regimen added: Olutasidenib (if mIDH1)(category 2B).
• Last column for both MDS-5q (low blasts) and MDS-SF3B1 (low blasts), "(poor probability to respond to IST)" removed.
MDS-6
• Serum EPO ≤ 500 mU/mL, last column, Useful in Certain Circumstances, regimen added: Olutasidenib (if mIDH1)(category 2B).
• Serum EPO >500 mU/mL, Poor probability to respond to IST, last column if mIDH1, regimen added: Olutasidenib (category 2B) if IDH1 inhibitor not 
previously used.
MDS-6A
• Footnote ii added: An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any recommended systemic biologic therapy in the NCCN Guidelines. 
(Also for MDS-8A)
• Footnote mm added: Consider epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa if serum EPO ≤200 mU/mL.
• Footnote ss modified: Patients with a good probability to respond to IST are  generally ≤60 y ears and with ≤5% marrow blasts, or those with hypocellular 
marrows, PNH clone positivity, or STAT3-mutant cytotoxic T-cell clones, whereas patients with a poor probability to respond to IST lack these features.
• Footnote removed: Refers predominantly to patients with lower-risk IPSS-R and IPSS MDS. 
• Footnote removed: Per WHO 2022, this entity is now noted as MDS-SF3B1 (low blasts) (Khoury JD, et al. Leukemia 2022;36:1703-1719). See MDS-A  
1 of 5.
• Footnote removed: Patients lack features listed in footnote qq.
• Footnote removed: An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for epoetin alfa. (also for MDS-8A).
MDS-7
• Treatment for Higher-Risk Disease extensively revised.
Transplant candidates, regimens added:
 ◊Azacitidine + ivosidenib (if mIDH1)(category 2B) followed by allo-HCT
 ◊Azacitidine + olutasidenib (if mIDH1)(category 2B) followed by allo-HCT
 ◊Azacitidine ± venetoclax (Also for Non-transplant Candidates)
 ◊Decitabine ± venetoclax (Also for Non-transplant Candidates)
 ◊Oral decitabine and cedazuridine ± venetoclax (Also for Non-transplant Candidates)
Transplant candidates, if no response and if mIDH1, regimens added: 
 ◊Single-agent olutasidenib (category 2B) followed by allo-HCT.
 ◊Azacitidine + olutasidenib (category 2B) followed by allo-HCT.
Non-transplant candidates, regimens added:
 ◊Ivosidenib (category 2B) ± azacitidine (if mIDH1)(category 2B)
 ◊Olutasidenib + azacitidine (if mIDH1)(category 2B).
Non-transplant candidates, if no reponse or intolerance or relapse and if mIDH1, regimen added: Olutasidenib (category 2B) if IDH1 inhibitor not 
previously used.Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Myelodysplastic Syndromes from Version 3.2024 include:PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESUpdates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Myelodysplastic Syndromes from Version 3.2024 include:
MDS-7A
• Footnote aaa added: The addition of venetoclax is based on patient status and tolerance.
• Footnote zz and footnote ccc were separated from one footnote.
• Footnote ccc, modified as follows:
Sentence removed: Clinical trials are preferred (Discussion).
Language added: Furthermore, a diagnosis of AML may be made with less than 20% in patients with certain cytogenetic abnormalities per ICC...
Language added: Per recent communications, some patients with higher risk disease with WHO 2022 MDS-IB2 and ICC MDS/AML could be 
considered for AML-type therapy...
• Footnote eee added: For HMAs, if no response within 6 cycles of azacitidine or 4 cycles of decitabine or oral decitabine and cedazuridine.
• Footnote removed: It is recommended to repeat molecular testing to identify targetable mutations. 
MDS-8
• Bullet 6, post-transplant, sub-bullet 1 modified: Patients should receive antibiotic  antimicrobial  prophylaxis at least as long as they are on IST.
• Footnote jjj added: Ophthalmic and auditory tests are recommended annually when using deferasirox. Monitor serum creatinine regularly upon starting 
deferasirox.
MDS-A (1 of 5)
• Footnote c modified: ≥20% marrow blasts or ≥10% blasts  those with AML-defining molecular abnormalities.
MDS-A (3 of 5)
• Footnote l modified: 10% to <20% bone marrow blasts or blast equivalents.
• Footnote t modified: Patients with CMML may have disease that responds to ruxolitinib for symptomatic disease.... Consider exclusion of other 
abnormalities associated with myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms with eosinophilia and tyrosine kinase gene fusions (ie, PDGFRA/PDGFRB-r , FGFR1-r, or 
PCM1::JAK2, using FISH or RNA sequencing) to establish diagnosis of CMML....Molecular testing with a high-sensitivity PCR is required to detect KIT 
D816V.
MDS-A (4 of 5)
• Page header added: Genetic/Cytogenetic Abnormalities in AML and MDS.
• AML-Defining Genetic Abnormalities: WHO 2022 and ICC, table revised:
AML
 ◊Bullet 9 modified: CEBPA (WHO only), in-frame bZIP CEBPA mutations (ICC only) .
 ◊Bullet 10 modified: RBM15::MRTFA fusion (WHO only).
 ◊Bullet 11 modified: NUP98 rearrangment (WHO only).
• Table added: Common Cytogenetic Abnormalities in MDS.
• Footnote aa added: Both the IPSS and IPSS-R rely heavily on cytogenetics; if a proper metaphase karyotype is non-informative/cannot be performed, 
the minimum recommended panel for FISH consists of abnormalities noted with an asterisk. Of note, there is also FISH for TP53.
• Footnote bb added: Both WHO and ICC recommend that without morphologic dysplasia, clonal cytogenetic abnormalities like loss of chromosome 
13 or del(13q), del(9q), etc, which were considered as presumptive MDS should not be used to diagnose MDS but handled in the same way as CHIP  
mutations.
MDS-C (2 of 4)
• UBA1, examples of typical somatic mutation types and locations... row modified: Missense: exon 3 M41T , M41V, M41L, and others
• Footnote f added: Consider consulting a rheumatologist. JAK2 inhibitors and/or HMAs may potentially be used for these patients.
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESUpdates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Myelodysplastic Syndromes from Version 3.2024 include:
MDS-D (1 of 6)
• Whom to test, bullet 3 modified: All patients <50 y with MDS or AML and adults <50 y with AML
MDS-D (5 of 6)
• Management considerations added: The presence of a syndrome with noted high penetrance of myeloid malignancy or high-risk findings (such as 
somatic 2nd hit of RUNX1, DDX41, CEBPA, or biallelic TP53 loss) warrants timely referral to an academic center for assessment by a team with 
expertise in HMMPS and HCT evaluation for appropriate timing.
MDS-E
• Gene Mutations Associated with Hereditary Myeloid Malignancy Predisposition Syndromes
Section extensively revised.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-1Cytopenia(s), 
suspect 
myelodysplasiaaINITIAL EVALUATION
• History and physical (H&P)
• Complete blood count (CBC), platelets, differential, reticulocyte count
• Examination of peripheral blood smear
• Bone marrow aspiration with iron stain + biopsy + cytogenetics by 
standard karyotyping.b Recommend testing bone marrow sample 
with reticulin stain for fibrosis. Genetic testing for somatic mutations 
(ie, acquired mutations) in genes associated with myelodysplastic 
syndromes (MDS)c,d
• Serum erythropoietin (EPO) (prior to red blood cell [RBC] transfusion)
• Serum or RBC folate and vitamin B12 evaluatione
• Serum ferritin, iron, total iron-binding capacity (TIBC)
• Documentation of transfusion history
• Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) 
• Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)
• Recommend additional molecular and genetic testing for heritable 
hematologic malignancy predisposition in a subset of patients, 
particularly in patientsf <50 y
• Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) testing if clinically indicated 
• Consider evaluation of copper deficiency in patients with 
gastrointestinal (GI) malabsorption, severe malnutrition, gastric bypass 
surgery, or patients on zinc supplementation
• Consider distinction from congenital sideroblastic anemia (CSA)gDiagnosis of MDS 
established based 
on morphologic, 
cytogenetic, and 
clinical criteriah,iAdditional Testing 
and Classification 
(MDS-3)Diagnostic criteria 
for MDS not met 
but cytopenias 
presentSpectrum of 
Indolent Myeloid 
Hematopoietic 
Disorders (MDS-2)
Footnotes on MDS-1APLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
a MDS is also suspected in the presence of peripheral blood dysplasia, blasts, or MDS-associated cytogenetic abnormalities. Cytopenias are defined as values 
lower than standard lab hematologic levels, being cognizant of age, sex, ethnic, and altitude norms. Greenberg PL, et al. Blood 2016;128:2096-2097. For 
diagnostic features of primary and therapy-related MDS that require cytopenia(s) and hematopoietic cell dysplasia, see MDS-A (1 of 5).
b If standard cytogenetics (with ≥20 metaphases) cannot be obtained, a chromosome microarray analysis (CMA; also known as chromosome genomic array 
testing [CGAT]) or MDS-related fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) panel should be performed. If karyotype is normal, then consider CMA. Note that CMA 
will detect not only somatic but also constitutional (germline) changes. See Table of Common Cytogenetic Abnormalities in MDS (MDS-A [4 of 5]).
c If MDS is read out by the evaluating pathologist, reflex testing including cytogenetics and molecular testing should be performed as a standard practice. A 
unified report that includes molecular-genetic results with pathological description is required for appropriate diagnosis and therapy selection. See Table of 
Common Cytogenetic Abnormalities in MDS (MDS-A [4 of 5]).
d Bone marrow or peripheral blood cells should be assayed for MDS-associated gene mutations using gene panels that include genes listed on MDS-C. These 
gene mutations can establish the presence of clonal hematopoiesis, which can help exclude benign causes of cytopenias in cases with non-diagnostic 
morphology, but do not establish a diagnosis of MDS in the absence of clinical diagnostic criteria (see Genes Frequently Somatically Mutated in MDS [MDS-C] 
and Discussion). As clonal hematopoiesis is a frequent consequence of aging, the finding of mutations in MDS-associated genes should be interpreted with 
caution and does not in isolation establish a diagnosis of MDS. The majority of patients with WHO-defined MDS have a somatic mutation detected in one of the 
commonly mutated MDS-associated genes. See Table of Common Cytogenetic Abnormalities in MDS (MDS-A [4 of 5]).
e RBC folate is a more representative measure of folate stores and is the preferred test to serum folate. Serum methylmalonic acid testing is an accurate way to 
assess B12 status and is mandatory to the vitamin B12 evaluation, particularly for patients with possible pernicious anemia.
f A heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndrome may account for cytopenias with or without MDS in some patients, whether presenting to 
pediatric or adult care centers (eg, GATA2 deficiency syndrome, Shwachman-Diamond syndrome, telomere biology disorders). Functional laboratory studies 
and constitutional (germline) genetic testing using large next-generation sequencing (NGS) panels to include genes listed on MDS-E, whole exome or 
whole genome sequencing complemented with in silico copy number variant (CNV) calling, and/or laboratory analysis for CNVs, such as microarray testing 
are recommended for patients as shown on MDS-D (1 of 6). See Genetic Familial High-Risk Assessment: Hereditary Myeloid Malignancy Predisposition 
Syndr omes (MD S-D) and Gene Mutations Associated with Hereditary Myeloid Malignancy Predisposition Syndromes ( MDS-E). 
g In patients <40 y, CSA is due to disordered mitochondrial heme synthesis, often with distinctive mutational and clinical features. Some of these patients will 
have disease that responds to pyridoxine or thiamine. CSA is not MDS (Fleming MD. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program 2011;2011:525-531). CSA 
may appear late due to lyonization in X-linked sideroblastic anemia.
h Confirm diagnosis of MDS according to WHO/International Consensus Classification (ICC) criteria for classification (MDS-A) with application of International 
Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) or revised IPSS (IPSS-R) (MDS-B 1 of 4). The percentage of marrow myeloblasts based on morphologic assessment 
(aspirate smears preferred) should be reported. Flow cytometric estimation of blast percentage should not be used as a substitute for morphology in this 
context. In expert hands, expanded flow cytometry (FCM) may be a useful adjunct for diagnosis in difficult cases (see Initial Evaluation in the Discussion).
i Patients with karyotypes t(8;21), t(15;17), or inv(16) are considered to have AML even if the marrow blast count is less than 20%. See AML-Defining Genetic 
Abnormalities: WHO 2022 and ICC (MDS-A 4 of 5) and NCCN Guidelines for Acute Myeloid Leukemia. 
MDS-1AFOOTNOTES FOR INITIAL EVALUATION OF MDSPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
j Regular monitoring of blood counts in these patients should be instituted after evaluation as in 
MDS-1 (generally at least every 3–6 months). Monitoring is ultimately at clinical discretion, but 
these frequencies are reasonable based on risk of transformation. Molecular evidence (testing 
suggested on MDS-1) of clonal hematopoiesis provides information to allow earlier identification of 
predisposition states for myeloid neoplasms.
k For patients with MDS, see MDS-4, MDS-5, MDS-C, and MDS-D.
l Has one or more of these (+) features: either has a clonal karyotypic abnormality (present in ≥2 
metaphases) and/or a somatic mutation (present at >2% variant allele frequency [V AF]). Evaluation 
of mutations should include sequencing or panels incorporating the most frequently mutated MDS-
related genes as noted on MDS-C. Somatic mutations in more rarely mutated genes can also 
provide evidence for CHIP or CCUS.
m Patients with pathogenic mutations with >10% VAF AND ≥2 somatic mutations, spliceosome gene 
mutations, or mutations of RUNX1  or JAK2 have positive predictive values for myeloid neoplasms 
(MDS, MPN, or AML). Isolated mutations of DNMT3A, TET2, and ASXL1 have less predictive value.
n DNMT3A, TET2, ASXL1, RUNX1, JAK2, PPM1D, TP53, and splicing factor genes are the most 
frequently mutated genes associated with CHIP.
o Myeloid neoplasm risk is increased 3-, 37-, and 348-fold in low-risk, intermediate-risk, and high-risk 
CHIP/CCUS, respectively, compared to unmutated controls.1
p To facilitate clonal hematopoiesis risk score (CHRS) adoption, an online calculator is available 
and should be considered by the clinician evaluating the patient1: http://www.chrsapp.com. The 
calculator returns a score with its corresponding risk category as low (CHRS ≤9.5), intermediate 
(CHRS 10–12), and high (CHRS ≥12.5). The three risk strata significantly differ in the 10-year 
probabilities of myeloid neoplasms and overall survival for relevant clinical discussions and follow-
up. The CHRS may have a role in clinical decision-making but requires confirmatory evidence to 
help assess its efficacy. Another method has also been reported to aid in the prediction of clonal 
hematopoiesis to myeloid neoplasm.5Feature CHIP ICUS Lower-Risk CCUS High-Risk CCUS
Cytopenia(s) - + + +
Dysplasia - - - -
Clonality + - + +
Risk of 
transformation+ +/- +++++
Clinical approach Observation; 
Monitor based on 
clinical changeObservation; 
Monitor yearlyObservation; 
Monitor yearlyObservation; 
Monitor 2–4x/year CBC; 
consider clinical trialSPECTRUM OF INDOLENT MYELOID HEMATOPOIETIC DISORDERSj-p,1-4
CHIP: clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential; ICUS: idiopathic cytopenia of unknown significance; CCUS: clonal cytopenia of undetermined significance
MDS-21 Weeks LD, et al. NEJM Evid 2023;2:EVIDoa2200310.
2 Malcovati L, et al. Blood 2017;129:3371-3378.
3 Galli A, et al. Blood 2021;138:965-976. 
4 Kwok B, et al. Blood 2015;126:2355-2361.
5 Gu M, et al. Nat Gen 2023;55:1523-1530.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
• Consider flow cytometry (FCM) for MDS as a diagnostic aidq 
and consider FCM and TCR polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
and STAT3  mutation testing to evaluate for large granular 
lymphocyte (LGL)r and paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria 
(PNH) clones
• Perform human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing if 
hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) candidatet
• Consider evaluating patients with chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia (CMML) for PDGFRβ gene rearrangements at 5q32u 
• Cytomegalovirus (CMV)-safe (CMV-negative or leukopheresed) 
blood products are recommended whenever possible for CMV-
negative transplant candidates
MDS-3q See Recommendations for Flow Cytometry (MDS-F) and Discussion.
r Marrow or peripheral blood cell FCM may be assayed, and T-cell gene 
rearrangement studies may be conducted if LGLs are detected in the 
peripheral blood. STAT3  mutations are commonly found in T-cell LGL (T-LGL) 
disease. Morgan EA, et al. Blood Adv 2017;1:1786-1789. Chan WC, Foucar 
K, Morice WG, Matutes E. T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia. In: 
Swerdlow SH, Campo E, Harris NL, et al. WHO classification of tumours of 
haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (ed 4th). Lyon: IARC Press; 2017:348-
350.
s FCM analysis of granulocytes and monocytes from blood with FLAER 
(fluorescent aerolysin) and at least one glycophosphatidylinositol-anchored 
protein to assess the presence of a PNH clone. DeZern AE, et al. Cytometry 
B Clin Cytom 2018;94:16-22.t Donors should be evaluated by high-resolution allele-level typing for HLA-A, 
-B, -C, -DR, and -DQ.
u CMML with eosinophilia as well as other myeloid and lymphoid malignancies 
with rearrangement of PDGFRB (locus 5q32) have constitutive activation 
of the tyrosine kinase receptor. Spleno- or hepato-megaly are common 
clinical features. Such diseases are considered unique entities by WHO 
and are exquisitely sensitive to imatinib (Shomali W, et al. Am J Hematol 
2022;97:129-148). (See MDS/MPN Classification Table on MDS-A [3 of 5]).
v Mutation panel may be useful in this context to validate indolent myeloid 
hematopoietic disorders.ADDITIONAL TESTING
Consider observation to 
document indolent course 
vs. marked progression of 
severe cytopenia or increase 
in blastsMDS 
Classification Systems 
(MDS-A [1 of 5]) and (MDS-B)
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
See NCCN Guidelines for Acute 
Myeloid LeukemiaCLASSIFICATION
If negative for MDS/AML,
see Recommendations for Flow 
Cytometry (MDS-F )vMDS/myeloproliferative 
neoplasm (MPN) overlap 
syndromes
Principles, Classification 
System, and  Management 
(MDS-A [2 of 5])PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-4MANAGEMENT OF LOWER-RISK DISEASE 
(IPSS-R VERY-LOW-, LOW-, INTERMEDIATE-RISK DISEASE)w,x,y
TREATMENT
Clinically 
significant 
cytopenia(s)Supportive 
carez as an 
adjunct to 
treatmentSymptomatic 
anemia
Clinically relevant 
thrombocytopenia 
or neutropeniaNo del(5q) ± other cytogenetic abnormalities MDS -5
Disease 
progression/
No  
responsedd or 
relapseeeClinical trial
or
Consider allo-
HCT for select 
patientsggClinical trial 
or
Azacitidineaa
or
Decitabineaa
or
Oral decitabine and 
cedazuridinebb 
Useful in Certain 
Circumstances
Immunosuppressive 
therapy (IST) ± eltrombopag 
for select patientsccConsider 
hypomethylating 
agents (HMAs)
(if not already 
receiving)aa,ff 
or 
Ivosidenib (if 
mutant IDH1 
[mIDH1])(category 
2B)
or
Olutasidenib (if 
mIDH1)(category 
2B) If 
mIDH1
No 
mIDH1Ivosidenib 
or Olutasidenib 
(category 2B) if 
IDH1 inhibitor 
not previously 
used
w Presence of comorbidities should also be considered for evaluation of prognosis (see 
Comorbidity Indices in the Discussion).
x  Given its more accurate risk stratification, the IPSS-R categorization is preferred 
although the other systems also have good value. IPSS-R Intermediate-Risk MDS 
may be managed as lower risk if their score is ≤3.5 vs. higher risk if their score is 
>3.5. Pfeilstöcker M, et al. Blood 2016;128:902-910.
y If the disease is initially managed as lower risk but fails to respond, move to higher 
risk management strategies. 
z See Supportive Care (MDS-8). 
aa  Some studies have demonstrated clinical benefit with low doses of azacitidine or 
decitabine for lower-risk MDS. Sasaki K, et al. NEJM Evid 2022;EVIDoa2200034. 
bb Oral decitabine and cedazuridine (DEC-C) could be a substitution for intravenous 
decitabine in patients with IPSS Intermediate-1 and above.  Garcia-Manero G, et al. 
Lancet Haematol 2024;11:e15-e26.cc  Patients generally ≤60 y and with ≤5% marrow blasts, or those with hypocellular 
marrows, PNH clone positivity, or STAT3 -mutant cytotoxic T-cell clones. IST includes 
equine antithymocyte globulin (ATG) ± cyclosporin A. Additionally, for severe 
thrombocytopenia, eltrombopag alone could be considered.
dd Treatment failure would be considered if no response within 3–6 months. Response 
should be evaluated based on International Working Group (IWG) criteria: Cheson 
BD, et al. Blood 2006;108:419-425; Platzbecker U, et al. Blood 2019;133:1020-1030. 
ee Reevaulation with bone marrow and/or molecular testing is recommended.
ff  For patients with severe or refractory thrombocytopenia, eltrombopag or romiplostim 
can be considered. Oliva EN, et al. Lancet Hematol 2017;4:e127-e136. Fenaux P, et 
al. Br J Haematol 2017;178:906-913. See Discussion.
gg  Patients with IPSS Intermediate-1, IPSS-R Intermediate, and WHO-Based 
Prognostic Scoring System (WPSS) Intermediate-Risk MDS with severe cytopenias 
would also be considered candidates for HCT. Matched sibling, unrelated donor, 
haploidentical donor, or cord blood donor, including standard and reduced-intensity 
preparative approaches, may be considered.del(5q) ± one other cytogenetic abnormality 
(except those involving chromosome 7)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMATIC ANEMIAhh,iiFOLLOW-UP
• H&P
• CBC, platelets, 
differential, 
reticulocyte 
count
• Examination 
of peripheral 
blood smear
• Bone marrow 
aspiration 
with iron stain 
+ biopsy + 
cytogenetics
• Serum EPO 
level
• Rule out 
coexisting 
causes• Treat 
coexisting 
causes
• Replace iron, 
folate, B12 if 
needed
• RBC 
transfusions 
(CMV-safe) 
• Supportive 
carezMDS-5q 
(low blasts)
del(5q) ± one other 
cytogenetic abnormality 
(except those involving 
chromosome 7) 
MDS-SF3B1 
(low blasts)
No del(5q) 
± other 
cytogenetic 
abnormalities 
with ring 
sideroblasts 
(RS) ≥15% (or 
RS ≥5% with 
an SF3B1 
mutation)Preferred
Imetelstat (category 1)nn 
Other Recommended
Epoetin alfakk ± 
granulocyte colony-
stimulating factor 
(G-CSF)qq 
or
Darbepoetin alfakk ± 
G-CSFqqResponse
No Response to 
lenalidomideoo 
or ESApp or 
relapseeeContinue lenalidomide 
or ESA, decrease dose 
to tolerance
No response 
to imetelstatoo, 
or ESAs ± 
G-CSFpp or 
relapseeeEVALUATION OF RELATED ANEMIA
No del(5q) ± other cytogenetic 
abnormalities with RS <15% 
(or RS <5% with an SF3B1 
mutation)Serum EPO 
≤500 mU/mL
Serum EPO 
>500 mU/mLPreferred
Imetelstatrr (if not 
previously used)
or
Luspatercept-aamt 
(category 1) (if not 
previously used)
Other Recommended 
Consider  lenalidomidejjPreferred
Luspatercept-
aamtll,mm
(category 1)
Other 
Recommended
Imetelstatnn (if 
serum EPO >500 
mU/mL [ineligible 
for ESAs])No 
responseoo 
or 
relapseee
 MDS-5Footnotes on MDS-6ANo 
responseoo 
or relapseeeSee Serum 
EPO >500 mU/
mL (MDS-6)
Other 
Recommended
Ivosidenib 
(if mIDH1) or 
Olutasidenib 
(if mIDH1) 
(category 2B)
MDS-6Preferred
Lenalidomidejj
Other Recommended
Erythropoiesis-stimulating 
agent (ESA) (epoetin alfakk
or darbepoetin alfakk)Serum EPO 
≤500 mU/mL
Serum EPO 
>500 mU/mLPreferred
Lenalidomide (category 1)jj See Serum EPO >500 
mU/mL (MDS-6)MANAGEMENT OF LOWER-RISK DISEASE 
(IPSS-R VERY-LOW-, LOW-, INTERMEDIATE-RISK DISEASE)w,x,y
No 
responseoo 
or 
relapseeePLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MANAGEMENT OF LOWER-RISK DISEASE 
(IPSS-R VERY-LOW-, LOW-, INTERMEDIATE-RISK DISEASE)w,x,y
TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMATIC ANEMIAhh,ii
Symptomatic 
anemia with 
no del(5q) 
± other 
cytogenetic 
abnormalities
with RS 
<15% (or RS 
<5% with 
an SF3B1 
mutation)Follow pathway for Serum 
EPO >500 mU/mL (poor 
probability to respond to IST)Good probability 
to respond to 
ISTss
Poor probability 
to respond to 
ISTssATG + cyclosporin A ± eltrombopaguu 
Clinical trial
or
Preferred  
Azacitidineaa
Other Recommended 
Decitabineaa
or
Imetelstatnn,rr 
(if not previously used)
or 
Oral decitabine and 
cedazuridinebb
Useful in Certain Circumstances 
Consider lenalidomidettNo responsedd 
or intolerance or 
relapseee
No response 
within 6 cycles of 
azacitidine or 4 
cycles of decitabine 
or oral decitabine  
and cedazuridinedd 
or imetelstatoo or 
lenalidomideoo 
or intolerance or 
relapseeeClinical trialvv
or 
Consider allo-HCT for 
select patientsgg
 MDS-6Footnotes on MDS-6AmIDH1
No mIDH1Ivosidenib 
or 
Olutasidenib (category 
2B) if IDH1 inhibitor not 
previously usedSerum EPO
>500 mU/mLSerum EPO 
≤500 mU/mLPreferred
Epoetin alfakk 
or
Darbepoetin 
alfakk
or
Luspatercept-
aamtllResponse
No response 
to ESAspp 
(despite 
adequate iron 
stores) or 
luspatercept-
aamtoo or 
relapseeeContinue epoetin alfa or 
darbepoetin, decrease dose 
to tolerance or continue 
luspatercept-aamtll
Preferred
• Imetelstatnn  
(category 1)
• Luspatercept-aamtll  
(if not previously used)
Other Recommended
• Epoetin alfakk ± G-CSFqq or 
lenalidomidett
• Darbepoetin alfakk ± 
G-CSFqq or lenalidomidettResponse
decrease dose to 
tolerance for ESAs
No response to 
imetelstatoo or ESAs 
± lenalidomide 
or G-CSFpp or 
luspatercept-aamtoo 
or relapseeeFollow pathway for Serum 
EPO >500 mU/mL (poor 
probability to respond to IST) 
or
Preferred
Imetelstatnn (if not previously 
used) (category 1) 
Useful in Certain 
Circumstances
Ivosidenib (if mIDH1)
or 
Olutasidenib (if mIDH1)
(category 2B)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
w Presence of comorbidities should also be considered for evaluation of prognosis 
(see Comorbidity Indices  in the Discussion ).
x  Given its more accurate risk stratification, the IPSS-R categorization is preferred 
although the other systems also have good value. IPSS-R Intermediate-Risk 
MDS may be managed as lower risk if their score is ≤3.5 vs. higher risk if their 
score is >3.5. Pfeilstöcker M, et al. Blood 2016;128:902-910.
y If the disease is initially managed as lower risk but fails to respond, move to 
higher risk management strategies. 
z See Supportive Care (MDS-8) . 
aa  Some studies have demonstrated clinical benefit with low doses of 
azacitidine or decitabine for lower-risk MDS. Sasaki K, et al. NEJM Evid 
2022;EVIDoa2200034. 
bb Oral decitabine and cedazuridine (DEC-C) could be a substitution for 
intravenous decitabine in patients with IPSS Intermediate-1 and above. Garcia-
Manero G, et al. Lancet Haematol 2024;11:e15-e26.
dd Treatment failure would be considered if no response within 3–6 months. 
Response should be evaluated based on IWG criteria: Cheson BD, et al. Blood 
2006;108:419-425; Platzbecker U, et al. Blood 2019;133:1020-1030. ee Reevaulation with bone marrow and/or molecular testing is recommended.
gg  Patients with IPSS Intermediate-1, IPSS-R Intermediate, and WPSS 
Intermediate-Risk MDS with severe cytopenias would also be considered 
candidates for HCT. Matched sibling, unrelated donor, haploidentical donor, 
or cord blood donor, including standard and reduced-intensity preparative 
approaches, may be considered.
hh Target hemoglobin range 10 to 12 g/dL; not to exceed 12 g/dL.
ii An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any recommended 
systemic biologic therapy in the NCCN Guidelines.
jj  Recommended lenalidomide initial dose is: 10 mg/day for 21 out of 28 days or 28 
days monthly for 2–4 months to assess response ( Discussion ). Use caution for 
patients with low platelet and neutrophil counts; consider modifying lenalidomide 
dose. Sekeres MA, et al. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:5943-5949. Patients with 
monosomy 7 are an exception and should be treated in the higher prognostic risk 
category (MDS-7). Lenalidomide exposure has been associated with a selective 
expansion of TP53-mutated clones (Sperling AS, et al. Blood 2022;140:1753-
1763). Additional consideration for and/or closer monitoring of particular patients 
is warranted. kk Dosing is 40,000–60,000 U 1–2 times per week subcutaneously (SC) for  epoetin 
alfa and 150–300 mcg every other week SC for darbepoetin alfa. For lack of 
response, escalate the dose. At some institutions, darbepoetin alfa has been 
administered using doses up to 500 mcg every other week. 
ll Data have demonstrated the effectiveness of luspatercept for treating the anemia 
of patients with ring sideroblastic lower-risk MDS. Fenaux P, et al. N Engl J Med 
2020;382:140-151. Data have emerged for patients with non-sideroblastic lower-
risk MDS with anemia indicating similar but more prolonged responses with 
luspatercept compared to ESAs (Platzbecker U, et al. Lancet 2023;402:373-385). 
The starting dose of luspatercept-aamt is 1 mg/kg every 3 weeks, which may be 
increased to 1.33 mg/kg every 3 weeks if not RBC transfusion-free after at least 
two consecutive doses (6 weeks) at the 1 mg/kg starting dose. The dose may be 
further increased to 1.75 mg/kg every 3 weeks if not RBC transfusion-free after at 
least 2 consecutive doses (6 weeks) at the 1.33 mg/kg dose.
mm Consider epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa if serum EPO ≤200 mU/mL. 
nn Initial dosing is 7.1 mg/kg IV monthly with potential dose decrements since 
frequent transient thrombocytopenia and neutropenia may occur. Starting platelet 
and neutrophil levels should be ≥75,000 and ≥1500, respectively (Platzbecker U, 
et al. Lancet 2024;403:249-260).
oo  Lack of ≥1.5 gm/dL rise in hemoglobin or lack of a decrease in RBC transfusion 
requirement by 3 to 6 months of treatment.
pp Lack of ≥1.5 gm/dL rise in hemoglobin or lack of a decrease in RBC transfusion 
requirement by 6 to 8 weeks of treatment.
qq Dosing is 1–2 mcg/kg 1–2 times per week SC for G-CSF.
rr This does not apply to patients with MDS-5q, since this patient population was 
not studied. 
ss  Patients with a good probability to respond to IST are generally ≤60 y and with 
≤5% marrow blasts, or those with hypocellular marrows, PNH clone positivity , or 
STAT3 -mutant cytotoxic T-cell clones, whereas patients with a poor probability to 
respond to IST lack these features.
tt  Lenalidomide 10 mg daily if absolute neutrophil count >0.5, platelets >50,000; 
Toma A, et al. Leukemia 2016;30:897-905.
uu ATG may be omitted when clinically indicated.
vv Emerging data are demonstrating effectiveness of enasidenib for patients with 
MDS with IDH2 mutations (Medeiros BC, et al. Leukemia 2017;31:272-281).
MDS-6AFOOTNOTES FOR MDS-5 AND MDS-6PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
• Azacitidineyy ± 
venetoclaxzz,bbb 
• Decitabineyy ± 
venetoclaxzz,bbb 
• Oral decitabine and 
cedazuridinebb,yy ± 
venetoclaxzz,bbb 
• High-intensity 
chemotherapyccc
• Clinical trialvv,zz,aaa
Preferred
• Azacitidine (category 1)yy ± venetoclaxzz,bbb
 
Other Recommended
• Decitabineyy ± venetoclaxzz,bbb
• Oral decitabine and cedazuridinebb,yy ± 
venetoclaxzz,bbb
• Ivosidenib (category 2B) ± azacitidine (if m IDH1)
(category 2B)
• Olutasidenib + azacitidine (if mIDH1)(category 2B) • Allo-HCTxx
• Azacitidineyy  + ivosidenib (if mIDH1) 
(category 2B) followed by allo-HCTxx
• Azacitidineyy  + olutasidenib (if mIDH1)
(category 2B) followed by allo-HCTxx
• Clinical trialvv,zz,aaa  followed by allo-HCTxx
MDS-7Footnotes on MDS-7ATREATMENT
Transplant 
candidatez,wwYesRelapse after 
allo-HCT
or
No 
responseee,dddMANAGEMENT OF HIGHER-RISK DISEASE  
(IPSS-R INTERMEDIATE-, HIGH-, VERY-HIGH-RISK DISEASE)w,x
• Consider allo-HCT  
or donor 
lymphocyte 
infusionfff
• Clinical 
trialvv,zz ,aaa 
• HMA (Azacitidineyy 
or Decitabineyy 
or Oral 
decitabine and 
cedazuridinebb,yy)ResponsedddContinue
No 
responseddd
or relapseeeClinical 
trialvv,zz,aaa 
or
Supportive 
carezIf no response 
and if mIDH1 Consider single-
agent ivosidenib 
or single-agent 
olutasidenib (category 
2B) or azacitidine + 
olutasidenib (category 
2B) followed by allo-
HCTxxIf no response 
and if no 
mIDH1
or
If responseAllo-HCTxx
NomIDH1
No mIDH1Ivosidenib or 
Olutasidenib 
(category 2B) if  
IDH1 inhibitor 
not previously 
usedNo responseddd,eee 
or intolerance or 
relapseee
Clinical trialvv,zz,aaaNo  
responseddd 
or relapseeeClinical 
trialvv,zz,aaa  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
w Presence of comorbidities should also be considered for evaluation of prognosis 
(see Comorbidity Indices in the Discussion ). 
x  Given its more accurate risk stratification, the IPSS-R categorization is preferred 
although the other systems also have good value. IPSS-R Intermediate-Risk 
MDS may be managed as lower risk if their score is ≤3.5 vs. higher risk if their 
score is >3.5. Pfeilstöcker M, et al. Blood 2016;128:902-910.
z See Supportive Care (MDS-8) . 
bb Oral decitabine and cedazuridine (DEC-C) could be a substitution for 
intravenous decitabine in patients with IPSS Intermediate-1 and above. Garcia-
Manero G, et al. Lancet Haematol 2024;11:e15-e26.ee Reevaulation with bone marrow and/or molecular testing is recommended.
vv Emerging data are demonstrating effectiveness of enasidenib for patients with 
MDS with IDH2 mutations (Medeiros BC, et al. Leukemia 2017;31:272-281).ww Based on age (including up to at least 75 y), performance status, major 
comorbid conditions, psychosocial status, patient preference, and availability of 
caregiver, patients may be taken immediately to transplant or bridging therapy 
can be used to decrease marrow blasts to an acceptable level prior to transplant. 
Nakamura R, et al. J Clin Oncol 2021;39:3328-3339. xx  Allogeneic HCT from the most suitable donor (ie, HLA-matched sibling or 
unrelated donor, HLA-haploidentical family member or cord blood). Early 
referral for transplant evaluation is recommended to allow moving to transplant 
efficiently. Pre-transplant debulking therapy to reduce marrow blasts to <5% with 
the goal of reducing post-transplant relapse (see footnote yy and Discussion ) 
is recommended, although the optimum strategy (ie, azacitidine, decitabine, 
induction-type chemotherapy) has not been determined. To reduce the disease 
burden pre-transplant is particularly important in patients who will receive a 
reduced-intensity conditioning regimen (Festuccia M, et al. Biol Blood Marrow 
Transplant 2016;22:1227-1233). At some centers, failure to achieve <5% blasts 
with cytoreduction should not preclude patients from proceeding to transplant, 
as these patients appeared to derive survival benefit from transplant (Nakamura 
R, et al. J Clin Oncol 2021;39:3328-3339; Schroeder T, et al. Biol Blood Marrow 
Transplant 2019:25;1550-1559). Strategies for patients with specific mutations 
are under investigation. Patients with TP53 mutations, particularly biallelic, have 
a poor prognosis even with transplantation. These cases should be discussed 
with a transplant physician and patients should be enrolled in a clinical trial 
whenever possible.yy Azacitidine, decitabine, or oral decitabine and cedazuridine should be continued 
for at least 4–6 cycles to assess response to these agents. In patients who have 
clinical benefit, continue treatment with the HMA as maintenance therapy. While 
the response rates are similar for both drugs, survival benefit from phase lll 
randomized trials is reported for azacitidine and not for decitabine. 
zz Some emerging data have shown efficacy of novel agents, including venetoclax 
in combination with HMA with or without ivosidenib to target mIDH1 in patients 
with myeloid malignancies including higher-risk MDS (Garcia JS, et al. Blood 
2023;142:Abstract 319. Lachowiez CA, et al. Blood Cancer Discov 2023;4:276-
293). When used as cytoreduction for MDS in combination with an HMA, 
venetoclax has been effectively given for 14 days in monthly courses (Garcia 
JS, et al. Blood 2023;142:Abstract 319). Emerging data have also shown utility 
of olutasidenib for treating patients with IDH1 mutations (Cortes J, et al. Blood 
2023;142:Abstract 1872). Repeating the bone marrow evaluation after 1 to 
2 cycles is important to clarify the recovery of hematopoiesis and potential 
requirement for further therapy.
aaa A 20% blast cut-off for AML evolving out of MDS (AML-MDS) and MDS-
EB2 may be arbitrary in some clinical scenarios. AML-style therapies may be 
considered for appropriate patients with MDS-EB2, especially at younger ages 
of presentation. Furthermore, a diagnosis of AML may be made with less than 
20% in patients with certain cytogenetic abnormalities per ICC (see NCCN 
Guidelines for Acute Myeloid Leukemia ). Some clinical trials designed for high-
grade MDS may allow enrollment of patients with AML-MDS (Estey E, et al. Blood 
2022;139:323-332, DiNardo CD, et al. Cancer 2022;128:1568-1570). Per recent 
communications, some patients with higher risk disease with WHO 2022 MDS-
IB2 and ICC MDS/AML could be considered for AML-type therapy (Khoury JD, et 
al. Leukemia 2022;36:1703-1719; Arber DA, et al. Blood 2022;140:1200-1228).bbb The addition of venetoclax is based on patient status and tolerance. ccc High-intensity chemotherapy: Clinical trials with investigational therapy 
(preferred); or standard induction therapy if investigational protocol is unavailable 
or if it is used as a bridge to HCT.ddd Treatment failure would be considered if no response within 3–6 months. 
Response should be evaluated based on IWG criteria: Cheson BD, et al. Blood 
2006;108:419-425; Zeidan AM, et al. Blood 2023;141:2047-2061.
eee For HMAs, if no response within 6 cycles of azacitidine or 4 cycles of decitabine 
or oral decitabine and cedazuridine.
fff Consider second transplant or donor lymphocyte infusion immuno-based therapy 
for appropriate patients who had a prolonged remission after first transplant.
MDS-7AFOOTNOTES FOR MDS-7PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
• Clinical monitoring
Psychosocial support (see NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship)
Quality-of-life assessment
Transfusionshhh:
 ◊RBC transfusions (CMV-safe) are recommended for symptomatic 
anemia, and platelet transfusions are recommended for 
thrombocytopenic bleeding. However, they are generally not 
used routinely in patients with thrombocytopenia in the absence 
of bleeding unless platelet count <10,000/mcL. Irradiated 
products are suggested for transplant candidates.
Antibiotics are recommended for bacterial infections, and 
prophylaxis may be considered when starting patients on therapy, 
consistent with local hospital guidelines.
• Aminocaproic acid or other antifibrinolytic agents may be 
considered for bleeding refractory to platelet transfusions or 
profound thrombocytopenia.
• Iron chelationiii:
If >20 to 30 RBC transfusions have been received, consider daily 
chelation with deferoxamine SC or deferasiroxjjj orally to decrease 
iron overload, particularly for patients who have lower-risk MDS or 
who are potential transplant candidates (LOW/INT-1). For patients 
with serum ferritin levels >2500 ng/mL, aim to decrease ferritin 
levels to <1000 ng/mL (Discussion). Patients with low creatinine 
clearance (<40 mL/min) should not be treated with deferasirox or 
deferoxamine.• Cytokines:
ESAs: See Anemia Pathway (MDS-5)
 ◊ESAs refer to the following agents: epoetin alfa and darbopoetin 
alfa.
G-CSF:
 ◊G-CSF refers to the following agents: filgrastim and tbo-
filgrastim. Not recommended for routine infection prophylaxis.
 ◊Consider use in patients with neutropenia with recurrent or 
resistant infections.
 ◊Combine with ESAs for anemia when indicated. See Anemia 
Pathway (MDS-5).
 ◊Platelet count should be monitored.
• Clinically significant thrombocytopenia:
In patients with lower-risk MDS who have severe or life-threatening 
thrombocytopenia, consider treatment with a thrombopoietin-
receptor agonist.kkk
• Post-transplant:
Patients should receive antimicrobial prophylaxis at least as long 
as they are on IST.
Detailed recommendations are provided in the Guidelines 
generated by the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular 
Therapy (ASTCT, formerly ASBMT). See NCCN Guidelines for 
Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (HCT).
MDS-8SUPPORTIVE CAREii,ggg
ii An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any recommended systemic biologic therapy in the NCCN Guidelines.
ggg See NCCN Guidelines for Supportive Care .
hhh Avoid transfusions for arbitrary hemoglobin thresholds in the absence of symptoms of active coronary disease, heart failure, or stroke. In situations where 
transfusions are necessary, transfuse the minimum units necessary to relieve symptoms of anemia or to return the patient to a safe hemoglobin level. Hicks L, et al. 
Blood 2013;122:3879-3883.
iii Hoeks M, et al. Haematologica 2020;105:640-651; Yang S, et al. Br J Haematol 2022;197:e9-e11; Angelucci E, et al. Ann Intern Med 2020;172:513-522.
jjj Ophthalmic and auditory tests are recommended annually when using deferasirox. Monitor serum creatinine regularly upon starting deferasirox.  
kkk Giagounidis A, et al. Cancer 2014;120:1838-1846. Platzbecker U, et al. Lancet Haematol 2015;2:e417-e426. Oliva EN, et al. Lancet Haematol 2017;4:e127-e136.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PATHOLOGIC-MORPHOLOGIC CLASSIFICATIONS OF MYELODYSPLASTIC NEOPLASMS 2023a,b
Transition from Clinically Based Classifications to New Systems Including Genomic Features in 2022 
WHO 20161WHO 20222ICC 20223Bone Marrow Blasts
MDS, genetically defined
MDS-del(5q) MDS-5qdMDS-del(5q)d<5%
MDS-RS MDS-SF3B1eMDS-SF3B1e,h<5%
— MDS-biTP53f Myeloid neoplasms 
with mTP53i <20%
MDS, morphologically defined
MDS-SLD, MDS-MLD MDS-LB MDS-NOSj<5%
— MDS-hypoplasticg— <5%
MDS-EB1 MDS-IB1 MDS-EB 5%–9%
MDS-EB2 MDS-IB2cMDS/AMLc10%–19%
— MDS with fibrosis — 5%–19%
AMLcAMLcAMLc≥20%c
a Defined by dysplasia (≥10% for any hematopoietic lineage) and cytopenia(s). 
In general, clinical evidence should indicate that the blood count abnormality 
is chronic in duration (typically ≥2 to 4 months) and not explained by drug, 
toxin, or comorbid condition.
b This table compares specific aspects of the WHO 2016, WHO 2022, and ICC 
MDS classifications for definitions only. Care should be taken in the clinic as 
classifications alone do not imply therapeutic choice. AML remains a separate 
entity (see NCCN Guidelines for Acute Myeloid Leukemia) with therapeutic 
options distinct from MDS or MDS/AML in the majority of patients without rational 
prognostication until interventions have been rigorously studied in this entity. 
c ≥20% marrow blasts or those with AML-defining molecular abnormalities. See 
MDS-A 4 of 5. 
MDS-A
1 OF 5References on MDS-A 5 of 5d Sole genetic abnormality (or allowable 1 other cytogenetic lesion other than 
chromosome 7 abnormality).
e ≥15% RS only if molecular analysis not available; no del(5q), multi TP53, -7/del(7q), 
abn(3q), or complex cytogenetics.  
f WHO: Biallelic mutation status determined by VAF ≥50%, >1 distinct mutations, TP53 
locus. 
g ≤25% bone marrow cellularity, age-adjusted.
h No RUNX1  mutation.
i ICC: Biallelic mutation status determined by VAF >50%, >1 distinct mutations, TP53 
locus loss of heterozygosity (LOH); single TP53 mutation and complex karyotype 
(presumptive). 
j With -7/del(7q) or complex.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
• Clinical, morphologic, and mutational diagnostic features and treatment approaches for the various nosologic MDS/MPN subtypes are 
shown in the table on MDS-A (3 of 5).
• Prognostic classification systems have been developed for patients with CMML  with features similar to those for MDS. Proliferative CMML 
(white blood cell [WBC] count >12,000/mm3) has a worse prognosis than the dysplastic subtype. 
• Mutational findings are listed in the table on MDS-A (3 of 5) with a major consistency in CMML, indicating ASXL1 as being an adverse 
prognostic feature.
• Therapeutic approaches in CMML have generally been the model for treating the other MDS/MPN, with HMA ± venetoclax treatment for 
patients with intermediate- and higher-risk disease, and using these agents as a bridge to allogeneic HCT for those patients deemed to be 
transplant-eligible. The trajectory of disease progression may differ in the disparate clinical entities based on their underlying molecular 
features. Thus, expectant clinical monitoring is needed to assess potential change in patient's clinical status, needing altered management 
of the disorder. 
• Transplant eligibility principles include patients having fit performance status, their age, and having a donor. 
• Treatment response criteria for CMML have been developed by an international consortium of investigators.
• Patients with CMML may have systemic mastocytosis with associated hematologic neoplasm (SM-AHN) with a KIT D816V mutation in the 
neoplastic monocytes and mast cells. These patients may have marked hepatosplenomegaly, mast cell activation symptoms, or cutaneous 
lesions with elevated serum tryptase levels. The mastocytosis may be responsive to midostaurin treatment. Each disease should be treated 
independently depending on its severity, being aware of drug-drug interactions.  
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has low sensitivity for KIT D816V mutation, and allele-specific PCR is more sensitive and recommended 
in patients with high clinical suspicion of mast cell disease. Arock M, Sotlar K, Akin C, et al. KIT mutation analysis in mast cell neoplasms: 
recommendations of the European Competence Network on Mastocytosis. Leukemia 2015;29:1223-1232. See NCCN Guidelines for 
Systemic Mastocytosis.
cKIT-directed therapy should be considered for systemic mastocytosis (Bose P, Verstovsek S. Avapritinib for systemic mastocytosis. 
Expert Rev Hematol 2021;14:687-696).
• About 10%–20% of patients with blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN) skin lesions are associated with or develop into 
other myeloid neoplasms, including CMML, MDS, or AML (Facchetti F, et al. Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm. In: Swerdlow SH, 
et al. Revised 4th ed. Lyon: IARC Press; 2017:173-177). Therefore, an accurate pathologic diagnosis is important for patients to receive the 
best care. Tagraxofusp has been demonstrated to be a potentially useful therapy for these patients (Pemmaraju N, Lane AA, Sweet KL, et al. 
Tagraxofusp in blastic plasmacytoid dendritic-cell neoplasm. N Engl J Med 2019;380:1628-1637).CLINICAL PRINCIPLES OF MYELODYSPLASTIC/MYELOPROLIFERATIVE NEOPLASM (MDS/MPN) OVERLAP NEOPLASMS
MDS-A
2 OF 5PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
WHO 20161WHO 20222ICC3Features Frequent Mutations Treatment
Chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia (CMML)CMML-1k
CMML-2lCMML-myelodysplastic 
(CMML-MD)m
CMML-myeloproliferative 
(CMML-MP)m≥0.5 absolute monocyte count 
(AMC)
≥10% monocytes
ClonalitypTET2, SRSF2, ASXL1, 
RUNX1, NRAS, CBL4,5CMML-1: Consider HMAs or 
hydroxyureat,u,v,13-23
CMML-2: HMAs,w ± venetoclaxx 
and/or allogeneic HCTt,u,v,13-26
Atypical chronic myeloid 
leukemia (aCML)
(BCR::ABL negative)MDS/MPN and neutrophilia aCMLWBC ≥13K, dysplastic 
granulocytosis, ≥10% 
granulocytic precursor cellsq
mSETBP1 ± m ASXL1SETBP1, ETNK1,6 
BCR::ABL1 negative• Consider HMAs and/or 
ruxolitiniby and/or allogeneic 
HCTv,27,28
MDS/MPN with ring 
sideroblasts (RS) and 
thrombocytosis (T)MDS/MPN with mSF3B1 
and thrombocytosis MDS/MPN-T-SF3B1n
MDS/MPN-RS-T, NOSPlatelets ≥450KSF3B1, JAK27,8
MPL, CALR• Consider HMAs and/or 
lenalidomidev,29 or 
• Consider luspatercept-aamtv,z,30
MDS/MPN unclassifiable
(MDS/MPN-U)MDS/MPN not otherwise 
specified (NOS)MDS/MPN NOS Platelets ≥450K or WBC ≥13KTET2, NRAS, RUNX1, 
CBL, SETBP1, ASXL19• Consider HMAs and/or allogeneic 
HCTv
— — MDS/MPN with i(17q)oWBC ≥13K, dysgranulopoiesis SETBP1, SRSF210Allogeneic HCTv,10,31
Juvenile myelomonocytic 
leukemia (JMML)JMML (now MPN)Pediatric disorder and/or 
germline mutation-associated 
disorders>90% RAS pathway activation 
abnormalityrPTPN11, NF1,  
N/KRAS, CBL, 
SETBP1, JAK311,12Allogeneic HCTv
k <10% bone marrow blasts or blast equivalents.
l 10% to <20% bone marrow blasts or blast equivalents.
m CMML-MD=WBC ≤13K, CMML-MP=WBC >13K.
n VAF >10%. 
o Provisional.
p 80%–90% with ≥1 mutation in SRSF2, TET2, and/or ASXL1. Substantial frequency of SETBP1, 
NRAS/KRAS, RUNX1, CBL, and EZH2 mutations.
q <10% eosinophilia.
r Canonical RAS pathway mutations in NRAS, KRAS, PTPN11, NF1, CBL, or RAS-related genes 
in >95% patients; no KMT2A rearrangement or -7 cytogenetic abnormality.
s Oral decitabine and cedazuridine (DEC-C) could be a substitution for intravenous decitabine 
in patients with IPSS Intermediate-1 and above. Garcia-Manero G, et al. Blood 2020;136:674-
683.t Patients with CMML may have disease that responds to ruxolitinib for symptomatic disease. 
Padron E, et al. Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:3746-3754. Padron E, et al. Blood 2022;140:1101-
1103. Consider exclusion of other abnormalities associated with myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms 
with eosinophilia and tyrosine kinase gene fusions (ie, PDGFRA/PDGFRB-r, FGFR1-r, or 
PCM1::JAK2; using FISH or RNA sequencing) to establish diagnosis of CMML. Patients with 
a t(5;12) translocation associated with the ETV6::PDGFRβ fusion gene may have disease that 
responds to imatinib mesylate. See NCCN Guidelines for Myeloid/Lymphoid Neoplasms with 
Eosinophilia and Tyrosine Kinase Gene Fusions. Patients with CMML may have associated 
systemic mastocytosis (SM-AHN) and KIT D816V mutation responsive to midostaurin. 
Molecular testing with a high-sensitivity PCR is required to detect KIT D816V.
u Avapritinib was recently approved by the FDA in SM-AHN including CMML. DeAngelo DJ, et al. 
Nat Med 2021;27:2183-2191. Gotlib J, et al. Nat Med 2021;27:2192-2199. 
v Hydroxyurea may be helpful in decreasing excessive leukocytosis or thrombocytosis (Itzykson 
R, et al. Blood 2020;136:53-54).
w Ruxolitinib may be added to HMAs for symptom management or splenomegaly.
x In non-transplant candidates, the risk of cytopenias with the addition of venetoclax should be 
carefully considered. 
y Rare patients with CSF3R or JAK2 mutations may have disease that responds to ruxolitinib 
therapy due to their JAK-STAT pathway activation.
z Luspatercept-aamt is an option for the treatment of anemia.
MDS-A
3 OF 5MDS/MPN CLASSIFICATION
References on MDS-A 5 of 5PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
AML-DEFINING GENETIC ABNORMALITIES: WHO 2022 AND ICC2,3,32
MDS-A
4 OF 5AML Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL)
• t(8;21)(q22;q22.1)/ RUNX1::RUNX1T1
• inv(16)(p13.1q22) or t(16;16)(p13.1;q22)/ CBFB::MYH11
• t(9;11)(p21.3;q23.3)/ MLLT3::KMT2A
• Other KMT2A rearrangements 
• t(6;9)(p22.3;q34.1)/ DEK::NUP214
• inv(3)(q21.3q26.2) or t(3;3)(q21.3;q26.2)/ GATA2; MECOM(EVI1)
• Other MECOM rearrangements
• Mutated NPM1
• CEBPA (WHO), in-frame bZIP CEBPA mutations (ICC)
• RBM15::MRTFA fusion
• NUP98  rearrangement• t(15;17)(q24.1;q21.2)/ PML::RARA
• Other RARA rearrangements
References on 
MDS-A 5 of 5COMMON CYTOGENETIC ABNORMALITIES IN MDSaa,bb,*
Unbalanced Abnormalities Balanced Abnormalities
• −7 or del(7q)*
• −5 or del(5q)*
• i(17q) or t(17p) *  
• −13 or del(13q)
• del(11q)
• del(12p) or t(12p)
• del(9q)
• idic(X)(q13)
• del(20q)
• +8*
• -Y• t(11;16)(q23;p13.3)
• t(3;21)(q26.2;q22.1)
• t(1;3)(p36.3;q21.1)
• t(2;11)(p21;q23)
• inv(3)(q21q26.2)
• t(6;9)(p23;q34)
aa Both the IPSS and IPSS-R rely heavily on cytogenetics; if a proper metaphase 
karyotype is non-informative/cannot be performed, the minimum recommended 
panel for FISH consists of abnormalities noted with an asterisk. Of note, there is 
also FISH for TP53.
bb Both WHO and ICC recommend that without morphologic dysplasia, clonal 
cytogenetic abnormalities like loss of chromosome 13 or del(13q), del(9q), etc, 
which were considered as presumptive MDS, should not be used to diagnose 
MDS but handled in the same way as CHIP mutations.* Adapted with permission from Vardiman JW, Thiele J, Arber DA, et al. The 
2008 revision of the World Health Organization (WHO) classification of myeloid 
neoplasms and acute leukemia: rationale and important changes. Blood 
2009;114:937-951.GENETIC/CYTOGENETIC ABNORMALITIES IN AML AND MDSPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
1 Arber DA, Orazi A, Hasserjian R, et al. The 2016 revision to the World Health Organization 
classification of myeloid neoplasms and acute leukemia. Blood 2016;127:2391-2405.
2 Khoury JD, Solary E, Abla O, et al. The 5th edition of the World Health Organization 
classification of haematolymphoid tumors: Myeloid and histiocytic/dendritic neoplasms. 
Leukemia 2022;36:1703-1719.
3 Arber DA, Orazi A, Hasserjian RP, et al. International Consensus Classification of myeloid 
neoplasms and acute leukemias: Integrating morphologic, clinical, and genomic data. 
Blood 2022;140:1200-1228. 
4  Valent P, Orazi A, Savona MR, et al. Proposed diagnostic criteria for classical CMML, 
CMML variants and pre-CMML conditions. Haematologica 2019;104:1935-1949.
5  Meggendorfer M, Roller A, Haferlach T, et al. SRSF2 mutations in 275 cases with chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). Blood 2012;120:3080-3088.
6 Mughal TI, Cross NC, Padron E, et al. An International MDS/MPN Working Group's 
perspective and recommendations on molecular pathogenesis, diagnosis and clinical 
characterization of myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms. Haematologica 
2015;100:1117-1130.
7 Malcovati L, Della Porta MG, Pietra D, et al. Molecular and clinical features of refractory 
anemia with ringed sideroblasts associated with marked thrombocytosis. Blood 
2009;114:3538-3545. 
8 Malcovati L, Karimi M, Papaemmanuil E, et al. SF3B1 mutation identifies a distinct subset 
of myelodysplastic syndrome with ring sideroblasts. Blood 2015;126:233-241.
9 Zoi K, Cross NC. Molecular pathogenesis of atypical CML, CMML and MDS/MPN-
unclassifiable. Int J Hematol 2015;101:229-242. 
10 Kanagal-Shamanna R, Orazi A, Hasserjian RP, et al. Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative 
neoplasms-unclassifiable with isolated isochromosome 17q represents a distinct clinico-
biologic subset: a multi-institutional collaborative study from the Bone Marrow Pathology 
Group. Mod Pathol 2022;35:470-479. 
11 Calvo KR, Price S, Braylan RC, et al. JMML and RALD (Ras-associated autoimmune 
leukoproliferative disorder): common genetic etiology yet clinically distinct entities. Blood 
2015;125:2753-2758.
12 Sakaguchi H, Okuno Y, Muramatsu H, et al. Exome sequencing identifies secondary 
mutations of SETBP1 and JAK3 in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia. Nat Genet 
2013;45:937-941.
13 Adès L, Sekeres MA, Wolfromm A, et al. Predictive factors of response and survival 
among chronic myelomonocytic leukemia patients treated with azacitidine. Leuk Res 
2013;37:609-613. 
14 Santini V, Allione B, Zini G, et al. A phase II, multicentre trial of decitabine in higher-risk 
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Leukemia 2018;32:413-418.
15 Padron E, Komrokji R, List AF. The clinical management of chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol 2014;12:172-178.
16  Onida F, Barosi G, Leone G, et al. Management recommendations for chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia: consensus statements from the SIE, SIES, GITMO groups. 
Haematologica 2013;98:1344-1352.
17  Padron E, Garcia-Manero G, Patnaik MM, et al. An international data set for CMML 
validates prognostic scoring systems and demonstrates a need for novel prognostication 
strategies. Blood Cancer J 2015;5:e333.18 Hunter AM, Zhang L, Padron E. Current management and recent advances in the 
treatment of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Curr Treat Options Oncol 2018;19:67.
19 Savona MR, Malcovati L, Komrokji R, et al; MDS/MPN International Working Group. 
An international consortium proposal of uniform response criteria for myelodysplastic/
myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPN) in adults. Blood 2015;125:1857-1865.
20 Sperr WR, Horny HP, Valent P. Spectrum of associated clonal hematologic non-mast 
cell lineage disorders occurring in patients with systemic mastocytosis. Int Arch Allergy 
Immunol 2002;127:140-142.
21 Sotlar K, Fridrich C, Mall A, et al. Detection of c-kit point mutation Asp-816 --> Val in 
microdissected pooled single mast cells and leukemic cells in a patient with systemic 
mastocytosis and concomitant chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Leuk Res 2002;26:979-
984.
22 Patnaik MM, Vallapureddy R, Lasho TL, et al. A comparison of clinical and molecular 
characteristics of patients with systemic mastocytosis with chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia to CMML alone. Leukemia 2018;32:1850-1856.
23  Gotlib J, Kluin-Nelemans HC, George TI, et al. Efficacy and safety of midostaurin in 
advanced systemic mastocytosis. N Engl J Med 2016;374:2530-2541.
24 Eissa H, Gooley TA, Sorror ML, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for 
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia: relapse-free survival is determined by karyotype and 
comorbidities. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 2011;17:908-915. 
25 de Witte T, Bowen D, Robin M, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
for MDS and CMML: recommendations from an international expert panel. Blood 
2017;129:1753-1762. 
26  Padron E, Dezern A, Andrade-Campos M, et al. A multi-institution phase I trial of 
ruxolitinib in patients with CMML. Clin Can Res 2016;22:3746-3754.
27 Dao KT, Tyner JW, Gotlib J. Recent progress in chronic neutrophilic leukemia and 
atypical chronic myeloid leukemia. Curr Hematol Malig Rep 2017;12:432-441. 
28 Kanagal-Shamanna R, Hodge JC, Tucker T, et al. Assessing copy number aberrations 
and copy neutral loss of heterozygosity across the genome as best practice: An evidence 
based review of clinical utility from the cancer genomics consortium (CGC) working group 
for myelodysplastic syndrome, myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative and myeloproliferative 
neoplasms. Cancer Genet 2018;228-229:197-217.
29 Huls G, Mulder AB, Rosati S, et al. Efficacy of single-agent lenalidomide in patients with 
JAK2 (V617F) mutated refractory anemia with ring sideroblasts and thrombocytosis. Blood 
2010;116:180-182.
30 Komrokji RS, Platzbecker U, Fenaux P, et al. Luspatercept for myelodysplastic 
syndromes/myeloproliferative neoplasm with ring sideroblasts and thrombocytosis. 
Leukemia 2022;36:1432-1435. 
31 Ganguly S, Uvodich M, Dias A, McGuirk JP. Clinical characteristics and treatment 
outcome of patients with isochromosome 17q (i17q) abnormality and myeloid neoplasms: 
A single center experience. Leuk Res Rep 2018;10:55-56.
32 Zeidan AM, Bewersdorf JP, Buckstein R, et al. Finding consistency in classifications 
of myeloid neoplasms: a perspective on behalf of the International Workshop for 
Myelodysplastic Syndromes. Leukemia 2022;36:2939-2946. 
MDS-A
5 OF 5REFERENCESPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
a IPSS should be used for initial prognostic and planning purposes. WPSS permits 
dynamic estimation of prognosis at multiple time points during the course of MDS. 
b Patients with 20%–29% blasts may be considered to have MDS (FAB) or AML 
(WHO).
c Cytogenetics: Good = normal, -Y alone, del(5q) alone, del(20q) alone; Poor = 
complex (≥3 abnormalities) or chromosome 7 anomalies; Intermediate = other 
abnormalities. [This excludes karyotypes t(8;21), inv16, and t(15;17), which are 
considered to be AML and not MDS.]
d Cytopenias: neutrophil count <1800/mcL, platelets <100,000/mcL, Hb <10 g/dL.
e Cytogenetic risks: Very good = -Y, del(11q); Good = normal, del(5q), del(12p), 
del(20q), double including del(5q); Intermediate = del(7q), +8, +19, i(17q), any other 
single or double independent clones; Poor = -7, inv(3)/t(3q)/del(3q), double including 
-7/del(7q), complex: 3 abnormalities; Very poor = complex: >3 abnormalities. 1 Adapted with permission from: Greenberg PL, Cox C, LeBeau M, et al. International scoring system 
for evaluating prognosis in myelodysplastic syndromes. Blood 1997;89:2079-2088; Erratum. Blood 
1998;91:1100.
2 Adapted with permission from: Greenberg PL, Tuechler H, Schanz J, et al. Revised international 
prognostic scoring system for myelodysplastic syndromes. Blood 2012;120:2454-2465. Websites 
for accessing the IPSS-R calculator tool: https://www.mds-foundation.org/professional/resources/
prognosis-calculators . A mobile app for the calculator tool is also available. For IPSS: Low/Intermediate-1, see MDS-4 through MDS-6
For IPSS: Intermediate-2/High, see MDS-7
For IPSS-R: Very Low/Low/Intermediate, see MDS-4 through MDS-6
For IPSS-R: Intermediate/High/Very High, see MDS-7
MDS-B
1 OF 4INTERNATIONAL PROGNOSTIC SCORING SYSTEM (IPSS)a,1REVISED INTERNATIONAL PROGNOSTIC SCORING SYSTEM (IPSS-R)2
Survival and AML Evolution
Score Value
Prognostic variable 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
Marrow blasts (%)b<5 5–10 — 11–20 21–30
KaryotypecGood Intermediate Poor — —
Cytopeniad0/1 2/3 — — —
IPSS 
Risk Category  
(% IPSS pop.)Overall 
ScoreMedian  
Survival (y) in 
the Absence of 
Therapy25% AML 
Progression (y) 
in the Absence of 
Therapy
LOW (33) 0 5.7 9.4
INT-1 (38) 0.5–1.0 3.5 3.3
INT-2 (22) 1.5–2.0 1.1 1.1
HIGH (7) ≥2.5 0.4 0.2Score Value
Prognostic  
variable0 0.5 1 1.5 2 3 4
Cytogenetice Very 
good— Good — Intermediate PoorVery 
poor
Marrow blasts (%) ≤2 — >2–<5 — 5–10 >10 —
Hemoglobin ≥10 — 8–<10 <8 — — —
Platelets ≥10050–
<100<50 — — — —
ANC ≥0.8 <0.8 — — — — —
IPSS-R 
Risk Category  
(% IPSS-R pop.)Overall 
ScoreMedian  
Survival (y) in the 
Absence of Therapy25% AML Progression 
(y) in the Absence of 
Therapy
VERY LOW (19) ≤1.5 8.8 Not reached
LOW (38) >1.5–≤3.0 5.3 10.8
INT3 (20) >3.0–≤4.5 3 3.2
HIGH (13) >4.5–≤6.0 1.6 1.4
VERY HIGH (10) >6.0 0.8 0.7PROGNOSIS ACCORDING TO IPSS RISK SCORE1
PROGNOSIS ACCORDING TO IPSS-R RISK SCORE2PROGNOSTIC SCORING SYSTEMS
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
3 Adapted with permission from: Malcovati L, Della Porta MG, Strupp C, et al. 
Impact of the degree of anemia on the outcome of patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes and its integration into the WHO classification-based Prognostic 
Scoring System (WPSS). Haematologica 2011;96:1433-1440. 
4 Della Porta MG, Tuechler H, Malcovati L, et al. Validation of WHO classification-
based Prognostic Scoring System (WPSS) for myelodysplastic syndromes and 
comparison with the revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-R). A 
study of the International Working Group for Prognosis in Myelodysplasia (IWG-
PM). Leukemia 2015;29:1502-1513.
MDS-B
2 OF 4c Cytogenetics: Good = normal, -Y alone, del(5q) alone, del(20q) alone; Poor = 
complex (≥3 abnormalities) or chromosome 7 anomalies; Intermediate = other 
abnormalities. [This excludes karyotypes t(8;21), inv16, and t(15;17), which are 
considered to be AML and not MDS.]WHO-BASED PROGNOSTIC SCORING SYSTEM (WPSS)3,4
WPSS RiskSum of Individual 
Variable ScoresMedian Survival (y) 
from DiagnosisMedian Time (y) to AML 
Progression  
from Diagnosis
Very Low 0 11.6 NR
Low 1 9.3 14.7
Intermediate 2 5.7 7.8
High 3–4 1.8 1.8
Very High 5–6 1.1 1.0VariableVariable Scores
0 1 2 3
WHO categoryRCUD, RARS, MDS 
with isolated del(5q)RCMD RAEB-1 RAEB-2
KaryotypecGood Intermediate Poor —
Severe anemia 
(hemoglobin <9 g/dL 
in males or <8 g/dL 
in females)Absent Present — —
 For WPSS: Very Low, Low, Intermediate, see MDS-4 through MDS-6
For WPSS: High, Very High, see MDS-7PROGNOSIS ACCORDING TO WPSS RISK SCORE3,4PROGNOSTIC SCORING SYSTEMS
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
INTERNATIONAL PROGNOSTIC SCORING SYSTEM MOLECULAR (IPSS-M)f,5 
MDS-B
3 OF 4IPSS-M Very Low
VLLow
LModerate Low
MLModerate High
MHHigh
HVery High
VH
Patients, %
(n = 2701)14%
(381)33%
(889)11%
(302)11%
(281)14%
(379)17%
(469)
Risk score ≤ –1.5 > –1.5 to –0.5 > –0.5 to 0 > 0 to 0.5 > 0.5 to 1.5 > 1.5
Hazard ratiog
(95% CI)0.51
(0.39–0.67)1.0
reference1.5
(1.2–1.8)2.5
(2.1–3.1)3.7
(3.1–4.4)7.1
(6.0–8.3)
Median LFS, y
25%–75% LFS range, y9.7
5.0–17.45.9
2.6–12.04.5
1.6–6.92.3
0.91–4.71.5
0.80–2.80.76
0.33–1.5
Median OS, y
25%–75% OS range, y10.6
5.1– 7.46.0
3.0–12.84.6
2.0–7.42.8
1.2–5.51.7
1.0–3.41.0
(0.5–1.8)
AML-t by 1 y, %
      2 y
      4 y0.0
1.2
2.81.7
3.4
5.14.9
8.8
11.49.5
14.0
18.914.3
21.2
29.228.2
38.6
42.8
Death w/o AML, by 1 y, %
                      2 y
                      4 y2.2
7.0
15.98.5
16.2
29.512.0
19.8
33.618.0
31.1
51.119.3
39.8
54.230.6
45.6
51.3
5 With permission from: Bernard  E, Tuechler H, Greenberg PL, et al. Molecular 
International Prognosis Scoring System for Myelodysplastic Syndromes. NEJM 
Evid 2022;1:Evidoa2200008. IPSS-M Web calculator: https://mds-risk-model.
com.Abbreviations: LFS, leukemia-free survival; OS, overall survival; AML-t, AML transformation
f The IPSS-M may have a role in clinical decision-making but requires confirmatory 
evidence to help assess its efficacy.
g Hazard ratio for risk of AML-t or death.PROGNOSTIC SCORING SYSTEMS
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-B
4 OF 4GENE MUTATIONS FOR THE IPSS-M PROGNOSTIC RISK SCHEMA5
SF3B15q, SF3B1 mutation with isolated del(5q) or with one additional aberration excluding -7/del(7q). 
SF3B1α, SF3B1 mutation without co-mutations in BCOR, BCORL1, RUNX1 , NRAS, STAG2, SRSF2, or del(5q).
5 With permission from: Bernard  E, Tuechler H, Greenberg PL, et al. Molecular 
International Prognosis Scoring System for Myelodysplastic Syndromes. NEJM Evid 
2022;1:Evidoa2200008. IPSS-M Web calculator: https://mds-risk-model.com.Main Effect Genes (n=16)hResidual Genes (Nres) (n=15)
TP53multiBCOR
MLLPTDBCORL1
FLT3 CEBPA
SF3B15qETNK1
NPM1 GATA2
RUNX1 GNB1
NRAS IDH1
ETV6 NF1
IDH2 PHF6
CBL PPM1D
EZH2 PRPF8
U2AF1 PTPN11
SRSF2 SETBP1
DNMT3A STAG2
ASXL1 WT1
KRAS
SF3B1α
h In statistically weighted order.PROGNOSTIC SCORING SYSTEMSPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-C
1 OF 4Mutated 
GenecExamples of Typical Somatic Mutation Types and Locations 
in Select MDS-Related GeneseOverall  
IncidenceClinical Significance
TET2Nonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site  
Missense: any in codons 1134–1444 or 1842–192120%–25%Associated with normal karyotypes. More frequent in CMML (40%–60%).  
Common in CHIP and CCUS. 
DNMT3ANonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site
Missense in codons G543, R635, A741, R736, H739, 
S770, M880, R882, W893, P904, A91012%–18%More frequent occurrence in AML, particularly R882 mutations.  
Common in CHIP and CCUS.
ASXL1 Nonsense or Frameshift 15%–25%Independently associated with a poor prognosis in MDS and CMML. More frequent in CMML (40%–
50%). Common in CHIP and CCUS.
EZH2 Nonsense or Frameshift 5%–10% Independently associated with a poor prognosis in MDS and MDS/MPN. More frequent in CMML (12%). 
SF3B1Missense: E622, Y623, R625, N626, H662, T663, K666, 
K700E, I704, G740, G742, D78120%–30%Strongly associated with RS and more frequent in MDS-RS (80%). Independently associated with a more 
favorable prognosis.
SRSF2 Missense or In-Frame Deletion: involving codon P95 10%–15% More frequent in CMML (40%) and associated with a poor prognosis.
U2AF1 Missense: S34, Q157 8%–12% Associated with a poor prognosis.
ZRSR2 Nonsense or Frameshift 5%–10% Associated with a poor prognosis.
RUNX1dNonsense or Frameshift 10%–15% Independently associated with a poor prognosis in MDS.
TP53d Nonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site
Missense: any in codons except P47S and P72R8%–12%Independently associated with a poor prognosis. More frequent with complex karyotypes (50%) and 
del(5q) (15%–20%). May predict resistance or relapse to lenalidomide.
STAG2 Nonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site 5%–10% Associated with a poor prognosis.
NRASdMissense: G12, G13, Q61 5%–10%Associated with a poor prognosis, particularly in patients predicted to have lower-risk MDS. More 
frequent in CMML and JMML (~15%).
CBLdMissense: any in codons 366–420 <5% More frequent in CMML (10%–20%) and JMML (15%).
NF1dNonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site <5% More frequent in CMML (5%–10%) and in JMML (30%) where it is often germline.GENES FREQUENTLY SOMATICALLY MUTATED IN MDSa,b
This table lists gene mutations likely to be somatic (acquired, not congenital) and disease-related and therefore presumptive evidence of MDS. Other mutations (not 
listed in the table below) in these genes can occur in MDS. Additionally, some of these mutations can occur in the context of aging and do not in isolation establish a 
diagnosis of MDS, nor does the absence of mutations in these genes exclude a diagnosis of MDS in the correct clinical context.
Continueda  The specific mutations listed in this table are likely to be somatic if found in tumor 
material. Their absence in non-hematopoietic tissues would be required to prove 
that they are acquired. Known gene polymorphisms frequent in the population 
should be excluded from DNA sequencing results as they are likely germline 
variants and not evidence of clonal hematopoiesis. b  There are microdeletions that would be missed by typical genetic sequencing or 
karyotype that affects some of the same genes that may be indicative of clonal 
hematopoiesis.c Somatic mutations in several MDS-associated genes (eg, TET2, DNMT3A, TP53) 
can occur in non-disease states and no gene mutation is diagnostic of MDS. 
Mutations in several genes can occur in neoplasms other than MDS, including 
lymphoid malignancies such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Mutations should not be used as presumptive 
evidence of MDS when diagnostic criteria for MDS have not been met. d  Constitutional (germline) mutations in these genes can occur and cause a hematopoietic 
phenotype. Mutations identified in testing blood or marrow for somatic mutations associated 
with MDS can identify constitutional (germline) mutations. Distinguishing constitutional from 
somatic mutations often requires sequencing DNA from a non-hematopoietic tissue in MDS. 
e Mutation type definitions: Nonsense – a mutation that changes an amino acid codon into a 
premature stop codon. Frameshift – the insertion or deletion of DNA  base pairs that changes 
the amino acid reading frame. Missense – a mutation that changes one amino acid codon 
into another (eg, K700E indicates that the lysine [K] at codon 700 was mutated to a glutamic 
acid [E]). If no new amino acid is specified for a codon in the table, then it may be mutated 
into one of several possible amino acids (eg, R882 indicates that the arginine [R] at position 
882 can be mutated in more than one way). Splice Site – a mutation that alters the first or 
second bases immediately before or after an exon.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Mutated 
GenecExamples of Typical Somatic Mutation Types and Locations 
in Select MDS-Related GeneseOverall  
IncidenceClinical Significance
JAK2 Missense: V617F <5% More frequent in MDS/MPN-RS-T (50%); can occur in conjunction with SF3B1.
CALR Frameshift: after codon 352 <5% Observed in MDS/MPN-RS-T  where it can occur in conjunction with SF3B1 mutations.
MPL Missense: W515L/K <5% Observed in MDS/MPN-RS-T  where it can occur in conjunction with SF3B1 mutations.
ETV6dNonsense or Frameshift <5% Independently associated with a poor prognosis. 
GATA2d Nonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site
Missense: in codons 349–398Associated with a poor prognosis.
DDX41d Nonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site
Missense: in codon R525HConstitutional (germline) mutations in this gene can occur.
IDH1 Missense: R132 <5% More frequent in AML.
IDH2 Missense: R140Q, R172 <5% More frequent in AML. Associated with a poor prognosis.
SETBP1 Missense: E858, T864, I865, D868, S869, G870 <5% Associated with disease progression. More frequent in aCML (24%) ; CMML (5%–10%) and JMML (7%). 
PHF6 Nonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site <5% More frequent in cases with excess blasts (EBs), but no association with survival.
BCOR Nonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site <5% Associated with a poor prognosis. More frequent in CMML (5%–10%).
FLT3 Internal Tandem Duplication or Missense: in codon D835 Associated with a poor prognosis.
WT1 Nonsense or Frameshift or Splice Site Associated with a poor prognosis.
NPM1 Frameshift: W288fs*12 Associated with a poor prognosis.
STAT3 Missense: any codons 584–674 <5% Occurs in LGL associated with MDS; associated with immune bone marrow failure.
PPM1D Nonsense or Frameshift ~5%Associated with therapy-related MDS, but not associated with adverse prognosis independent of TP53. 
Common in CHIP and CCUS.
UBA1 Missense: exon 3 M41T, M41V, M41L, and othersf~5%VEXAS syndromef (Vacuoles, E1 enzyme, X-linked, Autoinflammatory, Somatic) associated with 
systemic autoinflammatory and hematologic diseases, mainly MDS.
MDS-C
2 OF 4GENES FREQUENTLY SOMATICALLY MUTATED IN MDSa,b
This table lists gene mutations likely to be somatic (acquired, not congenital) and MDS-related. Other mutations (not listed in the table below) in these genes can occur 
in MDS. Additionally, some of these mutations can occur in the context of aging and do not in isolation establish a diagnosis of MDS, nor does the absence of mutations 
in these genes exclude a diagnosis of MDS in the correct clinical context.
Continueda  The specific mutations listed in this table are likely to be somatic if found in tumor 
material. Their absence in non-hematopoietic tissues would be required to prove 
that they are acquired. Known gene polymorphisms frequent in the population 
should be excluded from DNA sequencing results as they are likely germline 
variants and not evidence of clonal hematopoiesis. b  There are microdeletions that would be missed by typical genetic sequencing or 
karyotype that affects some of the same genes that may be indicative of clonal 
hematopoiesis.c Somatic mutations in several MDS-associated genes (eg, TET2, DNMT3A, TP53) 
can occur in non-disease states and no gene mutation is diagnostic of MDS. 
Mutations in several genes can occur in neoplasms other than MDS, including 
lymphoid malignancies such as CLL and ALL. Mutations should not be used as 
presumptive evidence of MDS when diagnostic criteria for MDS have not been 
met. d  Constitutional (germline) mutations in these genes can occur and cause a hematopoietic 
phenotype. Mutations identified in testing blood or marrow for somatic mutations associated 
with MDS can identify constitutional (germline) mutations. Distinguishing constitutional from 
somatic mutations often requires sequencing DNA from a non-hematopoietic tissue in MDS. 
e Mutation type definitions: Nonsense – a mutation that changes an amino acid codon into a 
premature stop codon. Frameshift – the insertion or deletion of DNA  base pairs that changes 
the amino acid reading frame. Missense – a mutation that changes one amino acid codon 
into another (eg, K700E indicates that the lysine [K] at codon 700 was mutated to a glutamic 
acid [E]). If no new amino acid is specified for a codon in the table, then it may be mutated 
into one of several possible amino acids (eg, R882 indicates that the arginine [R] at position 
882 can be mutated in more than one way). Splice Site – a mutation that alters the first or 
second bases immediately before or after an exon.f Consider consulting a rheumatologist. JAK2 inhibitors and/or HMAs may potentially be used 
for these patients.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-C
3 OF 41 Bejar R, Papaemmanuil E, Haferlach T, et al. Somatic mutations in MDS patients 
are associated with clinical features and predict prognosis independent of the 
IPSS-R: Analysis of combined datasets from the International Working Group for 
prognosis in MDS- molecular committee [abstract]. Blood 2015;126: Abstract 907.
2  Bejar R, Stevenson K, Abdel-Wahab O, et al. Clinical effect of point mutations in 
myelodysplastic syndromes. N Engl J Med 2011;364:2496-2506.
3 Papaemmanuil E, Gerstung M, Malcovati L, et al. Clinical and biological 
implications of driver mutations in myelodysplastic syndromes. Blood 
2013;122:3616-3627.
4 Haferlach T, Nagata Y, Grossmann V, et al. Landscape of genetic lesions in 944 
patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Leukemia 2014;28:241-247.
5 Cazzola M, Della Porta MG, Malcovati L. The genetic basis of myelodysplasia 
and its clinical relevance. Blood 2013;122:4021-4034.
6 Lindsley RC, Ebert BL. Molecular pathophysiology of myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Annu Rev Pathol 2013;8:21-47.
7 Yoshida K, Sanada M, Shiraishi Y, et al. Frequent pathway mutations of splicing 
machinery in myelodysplasia. Nature 2011;478:64-69.
8 Malcovati L, Papaemmanuil E, Bowen DT, et al. Clinical significance of SF3B1 
mutations in myelodysplastic syndromes and myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative 
neoplasms. Blood 2011;118:6239-6246.
9 Sakaguchi H, Okuno Y, Muramatsu H, et al. Exome sequencing identifies 
secondary mutations of SETBP1 and JAK3 in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia. 
Nat Genet 2013;45:937-941.
10  Bejar R, Stevenson KE, Caughey BA, et al. Validation of a prognostic model and 
the impact of mutations in patients with lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes. J 
Clin Oncol 2012;30:3376-3382.
11 Itzykson R, Kosmider O, Renneville A, et al. Prognostic score including gene 
mutations in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:2428-2436.12  Patnaik MM, Itzykson R, Lasho TL, et al. ASXL1 and SETBP1 mutations and 
their prognostic contribution in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia: a two-center 
study of 466 patients. Leukemia 2014;28:2206-2212.
13  Walter MJ, Ding L, Shen D, et al. Recurrent DNMT3A mutations in patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes. Leukemia 2011;25:1153-1158.
14  Graubert TA, Shen D, Ding L, et al. Recurrent mutations in the U2AF1 splicing 
factor in myelodysplastic syndromes. Nat Genet 2011;44:53-57.
15  Thol F, Kade S, Schlarmann C, et al. Frequency and prognostic impact of 
mutations in SRSF2, U2AF1, and ZRSR2 in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes. Blood 2012;119:3578-3584.
16  Makishima H, Yoshida K, Nguyen N, et al. Somatic SETBP1 mutations in 
myeloid malignancies. Nat Genet 2013;45:942-946.
17  Patnaik MM, Lasho TL, Hodnefield JM, et al. SF3B1 mutations are prevalent in 
myelodysplastic syndromes with ring sideroblasts but do not hold independent 
prognostic value. Blood 2012;119:569-572.
18  Sebaa A, Ades L, Baran-Marzack F, et al. Incidence of 17p deletions and TP53 
mutation in myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia with 5q 
deletion. Genes Chromosomes Cancer 2012;51:1086-1092.
19  Jadersten M, Saft L, Smith A, et al. TP53 mutations in low-risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes with del(5q) predict disease progression. J Clin Oncol 201 1;29:1971-
1979.
20  Mallo M, Del Rey M, Ibanez M, et al. Response to lenalidomide in 
myelodysplastic syndromes with del(5q): influence of cytogenetics and 
mutations. Br J Haematol 2013;162:74-86.
21  Jadersten M, Saft L, Pellagatti A, et al. Clonal heterogeneity in the 5q- 
syndrome: p53 expressing progenitors prevail during lenalidomide treatment and 
expand at disease progression. Haematologica 2009;94:1762-1766.Data for the table are derived from references listed below and are discussed in the following reviews:
• Bejar R. Prognostic models in myelodysplastic syndromes. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program 2013;504-510. 
• Tothova Z, Steensma DP, Ebert BL. New strategies in myelodysplastic syndromes: application of molecular diagnostics to clinical practice. Clin Cancer Res 
2013;19:1637-1643. 
• Cazzola M, Della Porta MG, Malcovati L. The genetic basis of myelodysplasia and its clinical relevance. Blood 2013;122:4021-4034.
• Kohlmann A, Bacher U, Schnittger S, Haferlach T. Perspective on how to approach molecular diagnostics in acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes in 
the era of next-generation sequencing. Leuk Lymphoma 2014;55:1725-1734.
• Greenberg PL. The multifaceted nature of myelodysplastic syndromes: clinical, molecular, and biological prognostic features. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2013;11:877-
884.GENES FREQUENTLY SOMATICALLY MUTATED IN MDS
REFERENCESPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-C
4 OF 4GENES FREQUENTLY SOMATICALLY MUTATED IN MDS
REFERENCES
22  Meggendorfer M, Roller A, Haferlach T, et al. SRSF2 mutations in 275 cases with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). Blood 2012;120:3080-3088.
23  Bejar R, Lord A, Stevenson K, et al. TET2 mutations predict response to hypomethylating agents in myelodysplastic syndrome patients. Blood 2014;124:2705-2712.
24  Itzykson R, Kosmider O, Cluzeau T, et al. Impact of TET2 mutations on response rate to azacitidine in myelodysplastic syndromes and low blast count acute myeloid 
leukemias. Leukemia 2011;25:1147-1152.
25  Damm F, Chesnais V, Nagata Y, et al. BCOR and BCORL1 mutations in myelodysplastic syndromes and related disorders. Blood 2013;122:3169-3177.
26  Jerez A, Clemente MJ, Makishima H, et al. STAT3 mutations indicate the presence of subclinical T-cell clones in a subset of aplastic anemia and myelodysplastic 
patients. Blood 2013;122:2453-2459.
27  Lindsley RC, Saber W, Mar BG, et al. Prognostic mutations in myelodysplastic syndrome after stem-cell transplantation. N Engl J Med 2017;376:536-547.
28  Kanagal-Shamanna R, Hodge J, Tucker T, et al. Assessing copy number aberrations and copy neutral loss of heterozygosity across the genome as best practice: An 
evidence based review of clinical utility from the cancer genomics consortium (CGC) working group for myelodysplastic syndrome, myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative 
and myeloproliferative neoplasms. Cancer Genetic 2018;228-229:197-217.
29 Linder K, Iragavarapu C, Liu D. SETBP1 mutations as a biomarker for myelodysplasia/myeloproliferative neoplasm overlap syndrome. Biomark Res. 2017;5:33. 
30 Beck DB, Ferrada MA, Sikora KA, et al. Somatic mutations in UBA1 and severe adult-onset autoinflammatory disease. N Engl J Med 2020;383:2628-2638.
31 Georgin-Lavialle S, Terrier B, Guedon AF, et al. Further characterization of clinical and laboratory features in VEXAS syndrome: Large-scale analysis of a multicentre 
case series of 116 French patients. Br J Dermatol 2022;186:564-574.
32 Beck DV, Bodian DL, Shah V, et al. Estimated prevalence and clinical manifestations of UBA1 variants associated with VEXAS syndrome in a clinical population. 
JAMA 2023;329:318-324.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Evaluation for Suspected Hereditary Myeloid Malignancy Predisposition Syndromes (HMMPS)GENETIC FAMILIAL HIGH-RISK ASSESSMENT: HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
• Allogeneic related donor HCT 
candidate of patients with 
suspected HMMPS
• Clinically suspected genetic 
predisposition syndrome at any 
agea
• All patients <50 y with MDS or 
AMLb
• "Hypocellular MDS"c,1
• Newly diagnosed aplastic anemia
• Personal history of MDS or AML 
(including therapy-related) and ≥1 
additional cancer(s)2WHOM TO TEST?
Peripheral blood testing
• FCM for PNH
• Telomere length by flow FISH 
Chromosomal breakage studyd
• Consider syndrome-specific testing 
based on clinical suspicione
Skin biopsy for fibroblast culturef 
(for DNA for germline genetic 
testing)
• Consider upfront to avoid 
unnecessary delay
• In select settings 
Additional bone marrow testing 
• CGAT/CMA• The presence of a PNH clone3,4 or 6p4,5,6 loss of 
heterozygosity (LOH) are associated with acquired 
diseases. These findings have not been rigorously 
established to exclude a germline disorder.
• If abnormally short telomere length and clinically 
suspected short telomere syndrome, consider panel-
based multigene sequencing of germline DNA (eg, 
fibroblast DNA or remission sample)g (Note: telomere 
length in patients with short telomere syndromes 
presenting as adults may not be markedly short)
• If chromosomal breakage studies are positive, consider 
panel-based multigene sequencing or whole exome or 
genome sequencing of germline DNAg
• If initial testing is negative, consider panel-based 
sequencing of germline DNA or whole exome or genome 
sequencing of germline DNAg
a Suggestive features:
•  Personal history of congenital anomalies and/or other manifestations concerning 
for an HMMPS, including so-called inborn errors of immunity (eg, early-onset and/
or multiple cancers, excessive toxicity with chemotherapy or radiation, hypocellular 
marrow, poor stem cell mobilizer, unexplained cytopenias or macrocytosis, 
pulmonary and/or liver fibrosis, immune deficiency/dysregulation ± laboratory 
findings of humoral and/or cellular immunodeficiency).
•  Relative with one or more of the following: acute leukemia or MDS or other manifestations (see 
above bullet) concerning for an HMMPS.
• Member of a family with a genetically defined HMMPS.
b The precise age cut-off for risk of inherited predisposition is not known. Note DDX41 
may present above this age. Some syndromes are particularly enriched among 
children and young adults with chromosome 7 abnormalities. See Genetic/Familial 
High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and ProstatePotential pathogenic 
germline variant found on 
"somatic" mutation panels
c "Hypocellular MDS" is currently not a distinct entity recognized by the WHO 
and presents a diagnostic challenge. Bennett JM, et al. Haematologica 
2009:94:264-268.
d If testing returns negative and clinical suspicion of Fanconi anemia (FA) 
persists, repeat on cultured skin fibroblasts to exclude somatic reversion.
e Serum pancreatic isoamylase (pediatric and adult patients) and serum 
isoamylase (pediatric patients) for Shwachman-Diamond syndrome and 
erythrocyte adenosine deaminase for Diamond-Blackfan anemia. 
 f Skin fibroblast culture and DNA isolation are available at select centers and 
commercially.
g Genetic counseling is needed prior to testing and consultation with an 
HMMPS expert may be helpful.INITIAL TESTING SUBSEQUENT STEPS
MDS-D
 1 OF 6ContinuedReferences on  MDS-D 6 of 6• If somatic NGS panel is suggestive of germline 
mutation, send confirmatory sequencing or whole 
exome or genome sequencing of germline DNA. 
Peripheral blood telomere length and chromosomal 
breakage studies may also be relevantgPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
GENETIC FAMILIAL HIGH-RISK ASSESSMENT: HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
• Recognition of these predisposition syndromes is clinically relevant for active therapeutic decisions, familial screening, and further 
investigations. 
Patients may require surveillance for disease-specific serious extra-hematopoietic complications and malignant clonal hematopoiesis 
evaluation.
In the setting of HCT consideration, specialized evaluations of a familial donor are warranted as well as potential use of a modified 
conditioning regimen. 
The recognition of a familial genetic disorder also allows for appropriate genetic counseling and follow-up of affected family members.7,8
• Increased treatment-related toxicity and prolonged post-treatment aplasia have been observed in patients with MDS/AML with these 
hereditary syndromes. Early referral to a transplant center and early HCT donor identification should be considered.
• Constitutional mutations predisposing to myeloid malignancy can occur without clinical stigmata of an inherited disorder or family history 
due to phenotypic heterogeneity, which reflects overlapping features between inherited syndromes and also variable expressivity within 
a syndrome. Also, a concerning family history of an inherited disorder is not expected in patients in whom the disease-causing mutation 
occurred de novo. Additionally, as there can be genetic anticipation in the short telomere syndromes, a child may be clinically affected, and 
the genetically affected parent clinically unaffected or less severely affected.
• Patients harboring these constitutional mutations can present to both pediatric and adult care centers. For example, patients who are 
older harbor germline predisposition mutations may demonstrate longer latency for disease development, as seen with germline DDX41  
mutations.9 Patients <50 y with MDS and those with therapy-related myeloid malignancies may be more likely to harbor germline variants in 
these cancer predisposition genes.10,11,12
MDS-D
2 OF 6ContinuedReferences on MDS-D 6 of 6PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Below is tailored to heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndromes; for a broad and more detailed discussion of cancer risk assessment and 
counseling, see the NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate. 
• Principles of Cancer Risk Assessment and Counseling. Consultation with a heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndrome expert may be 
helpful at all stages below:
1. Pre-test counseling prior to ordering testing
2. Appropriate DNA source for germline genetic testing
3. Consideration of the appropriate genetic testing methodologies and other diagnostic testing
4. Testing results disclosure and post-test counseling
5. Limitations of the proposed approach
6. Surveillance
1. Pre-test counseling includes the following elements :
• Evaluation of patient’s needs and concerns regarding:
Knowledge of genetic testing for cancer and/or other inherited bone marrow failure risks, including risks, benefits, and limitations of testing and the 
implications of test results for family members
 ◊Specific issues to discuss:
 –Mutations identified in blood or marrow for somatic mutations associated with MDS can identify constitutional (germline) mutations providing 
rationale to test a constitutional tissue.
 –Distinguishing constitutional versus somatic mutations may require sequencing DNA from a non-hematopoietic tissue in blood-based cancers.
Goals for cancer family risk assessment
• Detailed family history (including cancers and age at diagnosis and multiple cancers in a single individual, cytopenias, immune deficiency/dysregulation, 
congenital malformations, short stature, developmental delays, pulmonary or liver fibrosis, and ancestry with notation if any consanguinity)
• Detailed past medical history and review of systems, including:
Documentation of prior genetic testing results of patient and family members
Personal cancer history (age of diagnosis, treatment-related toxicities, and attention to solid and liquid malignancies in the same individual)
Personal history of cytopenias, immune deficiency/dysregulation, congenital malformations, short stature, developmental delays, and pulmonary or liver 
fibrosis
Reproductive history
• Complete physical examination
• Generation of a differential diagnosis and educating the patient on inheritance pattern, penetrance, variable expressivity , and the possibility of genetic 
heterogeneity
• Discussion of possible genetic testing result outcomes, including positive (pathogenic or likely pathogenic), negative, variants of undetermined 
significance, and mosaic results
• Obtaining written informed consent from patient for testing
• Discussion of the clinical implications of testing results to the patient
• Discussion of the clinical implications of testing results to potentially affected family members and their available options for risk assessment, testing, and 
management
• Cost of genetic testing
• Current legislation regarding genetic discrimination and the privacy of genetic informationGENETIC FAMILIAL HIGH-RISK ASSESSMENT: HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
MDS-D
3 OF 6ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
2. Appropriate DNA source for germline genetic testing
• When clinically possible, cultured skin fibroblasts are the recommended DNA source for germline testing in order to exclude somatic mutations and 
to avoid false negatives due to peripheral blood/marrow somatic mosaicism or somatic genetic reversion events.13,14,15
Utilizing skin fibroblasts upfront (as opposed to initial testing of DNA from blood or marrow) may avoid unnecessary treatment delay, effort, cost, 
and anxiety surrounding counseling patients regarding possible inherited variants detected on tumor-only testing that subsequently proves to be 
acquired.
Buccal samples can be considered, acknowledging the risk of peripheral blood contamination.
Peripheral blood during disease remission may be considered with the limitation that acquisition of a dominant revertant clone can occur in 
individuals with germline mutations. In this setting, genetic testing of blood/marrow-derived DNA could miss the germline mutation (eg, germline 
mutations in SAMD916 or SAMD9L).14,16,17
See NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Colorectal, Endometrial, and Gastric for information about constitution 
mismatch repair deficiency. 
See NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic and Prostate for information about Li-Fraumeni 
syndrome. 
3.  Consideration of the appropriate genetic testing methodologies and other diagnostic testing
• Multigene testing (aka NGS-based panel testing)
• Accurate interpretation of germline (or somatic) mutation testing is essential for effective medical care.
• As commercially available tests differ in the specific genes analyzed, variant classification, and other factors, it is important to consider the 
indication for testing and the expertise of the laboratory when choosing the specific laboratory and test panel.
The interpretation of genetic testing remains subjective and complex. Interpretations may differ by laboratory. Mutations may be reclassified as 
additional data emerge in the field (ie, mutations initially deemed pathogenic may be reconsidered and reclassified as nonpathogenic or vice 
versa).
• Mutations identified in testing blood or marrow for somatic mutations associated with MDS can identify constitutional (germline) mutations, but 
somatic panels are often not comprehensive and so a negative somatic panel does not rule out a constitutional mutation.18,19 
• Genetic testing performed to identify somatic mutations arising in malignant cells is often not designed to detect germline (that is, inherited) 
mutations and may thus be inadequate for evaluation of an underlying heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndrome. Specifically, 
somatic mutation panels may not target the relevant genomic locus and/or detect relevant copy number aberrations implicated in inherited 
disorders.18
• NGS and chromosome genomic array testing (CGAT) are complementary in detecting both mutations and copy number aberrations and copy-
neutral LOH (cnLOH) in genes associated with these disorders.
• Additional laboratory testing can assist in diagnosing these disorders.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is evaluated by chromosome breakage analysis.
Serum pancreatic isoamylase (pediatric and adult patients) and serum trypsinogen (pediatric patients) are often low in Shwachman-Diamond 
syndrome.
Short telomere syndromes, such as dyskeratosis congenita, demonstrate shortened telomere lengths, which can be measured by fluorescence 
in situ hybridization (FISH) assays using leukocyte subsets, although in patients who are older telomere length results may not be sensitive or 
specific and may require complementary genetic evaluation to aid in interpretation.20,21
Erythrocyte adenosine deaminase is often elevated in Diamond-Blackfan anemia.22GENETIC FAMILIAL HIGH-RISK ASSESSMENT: HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
MDS-D
4 OF 6ContinuedReferences on  MDS-D 6 of 6PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
4. Post-test counseling done when the test results are disclosed
• Discuss results and associated medical risks.
• Interpret results in context of patient’s presentation.
• Discuss recommended medical management.
• Discuss and help to facilitate education and testing of family members at risk for heritable malignancy predisposition syndrome.
• Discuss available resources such as high-risk clinics, disease-specific support groups, and research studies.
• For patients of reproductive age, advise about options for prenatal diagnosis and assisted reproduction, including pre-implantation genetic 
testing.
• Consider carrier status implications of autosomal recessive disorders.
5. Limitations of the proposed approach
• The current criteria are focused on known genetic predisposition syndromes for MDS or AML. The proposed age threshold of 50 y at 
diagnosis is arbitrary and may miss some patients with underlying heritable risk. A notable example of this is DDX41 . Germline DDX41 
variants have been reported in ~2% to 6% of unselected adult patients with myeloid malignancy ,23,24,25 which makes DDX41 one of the most 
common predisposition genes for myeloid malignancy in adult patients. These patients are commonly diagnosed with their AML/MDS after 
50 y. Additionally, likely not all genetic predisposition syndromes have been defined and so the current criteria for testing may change over 
time. Any clinical suspicion of hereditary predisposition warrants a referral to an institution with expertise in the field.
• Initial testing: Telomere length measurement by flow-FISH to assess the risk of telomere-mediated disease in patients with hematologic 
malignancies where there are circulating malignant cells may be confounded or falsely shortened secondarily due to the malignancy itself. 
In such cases, germline genetic assessment should be performed in lieu of telomere length measurement and telomere length measurement 
should be assessed during remission where possible. In some cases of familial disease, assessment of telomere length in a relative with 
an identical variant in a telomere gene could also be used for interpreting the significance of the variant (optional). Additionally, if there are 
circulating malignant cells or the malignant cell composition in peripheral blood is unknown, the finding of abnormally short telomere length 
measurement alone should be interpreted with caution and additional evidence of a telomere-mediated process is needed including the 
presence of a germline variant of clinical features including a family history of pulmonary fibrosis. 
• In the absence of a genetically confirmed heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndrome, a concerning personal/or family 
history may warrant consideration of an unrelated over a related donor for allogeneic HCT.
6. Surveillance
• Individuals who fulfill the clinical diagnostic criteria for a myeloid neoplasm with a germline predisposition should undergo surveillance, 
even if the pathogenic genetic variant is undetermined.
• Individuals with a deleterious or likely deleterious genetic variant associated with a germline predisposition should undergo surveillance, 
regardless of clinical presentation.
7. Managment considerations
• The presence of a syndrome with noted high penetrance of myeloid malignancy or high-risk findings (such as somatic 2nd hit of RUNX1 , 
DDX41 , CEBPA, or biallelic TP53 loss) warrants timely referral to an academic center for assessment by a team with expertise in HMMPS and 
HCT evaluation for appropriate timing.GENETIC FAMILIAL HIGH-RISK ASSESSMENT: HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
MDS-D
5 OF 6References on MDS-D 6 of 6PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-D
6 OF 6GENETIC FAMILIAL HIGH-RISK ASSESSMENT: HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
REFERENCES
1 Bennett JM, Orazi A. Diagnostic criteria to distinguish hypocellular acute myeloid leukemia from hypocellular myelodysplastic syndromes and aplastic anemia: 
recommendations for a standardized approach. Haematologica 2009:94:264-268. 
2 Singhal D, Hahn CN, Feurstein S, et al. Targeted gene panels identify a high frequency of pathogenic germline variants in patients diagnosed with a hematological 
malignancy and at least one other independent cancer. Leukemia 2021:35:3245-3256.3 DeZern AE, Sekeres MA. The challenging world of cytopenias: distinguishing myelodysplastic syndromes from other disorders of marrow failure.  Eur J Hematol 
2014;92:467-470.
4 Shah YB, Priore SF, Li Y, et al. The predictive value of PNH clones, 6p CN-LOH, and clonal TCR gene rearrangement for aplastic anemia diagnosis. Blood Adv 
2021:5:3216-3226. 5 Katagiri T, Sato-Otsubo A, Kashiwase K, et al. Frequent loss of HLA alleles associated with copy number-neutral 6pLOH in acquired aplastic anemia. Blood 
2011;118:6601-6609.   6 Babushok DV, Xie HM, Roth JJ, et al. Single nucleotide polymorphism array analysis of bone marrow failure patients reveals characteristic patterns of genetic 
changes.  Br J Haematol 2014;164:73-82.
7 DiNardo CD, Bannon SA, Routbort M, et al. Evaluation of patients and families with concern for predispositions to hematologic malignancies within the Hereditary 
Hematologic Malignancy Clinic (HHMC). Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2016;16:417-428.e2.
8 Godley LA, Shimamura A. Genetic predisposition to hematologic malignancies: management and surveillance. Blood 2017;130:424-432.
9 Sebert M, Passet M, Raimbault A, et al. Germline DDX41 mutations define a significant entity within adult MDS/AML patients. Blood 2019;134:1441-1444.
10 Churpek JE, Marquez R, Neistadt B, et al. Inherited mutations in cancer susceptibility genes are common among survivors of breast cancer who develop therapy-
related leukemia. Cancer 2016;122:304-311.
11 Wlodarski MW, Collin M, Horwitz MS. GATA2 deficiency and related myeloid neoplasms. Semin Hematol 2017;54:81-86.
12 Feurstein S, Churpek JE, Walsh T, et al. Germline variants drive myelodysplastic syndrome in young adults. Leukemia 2021;35:2439-2444.
13 Tan S, Kermasson L, Hilcenko C, et al. Somatic genetic rescue of a germline ribosome assembly defect. Nat Commun 2021;12:5044. 
14 Sahoo SS, Pastor VB, Goodings C, et al. Clinical evolution, genetic landscape and trajectories of clonal hematopoiesis in SAMD9/SAMD9L  syndromes. Nat Med 
2021;27:1806-1817.
15 Schratz KE, Gaysinskaya V, Cosner ZL, et al. Somatic reversion impacts myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia evolution in the short telomere 
disorders. J Clin Invest 2021;131:e147598.
16 Wong JC, Bryant V, Lamprecht T, et al. Germline SAMD9 and SAMD9L mutations are associated with extensive genetic evolution and diverse hematologic outcomes. 
JCI Insight 2018;3:e121086.
17 Tesi B, Davidsson J, Voss M, et al. Gain-of-function SAMD9L mutations cause a syndrome of cytopenia, immunodeficiency, MDS, and neurological symptoms. Blood 
2017;129:2266-2279.
18 Trottier AM, Cavalcante de Andrade Silva M, Li Z, Godley LA. Somatic mutation panels: Time to clear their names. Cancer Genet 2019;235-236:84-92.
19 Kraft IL, Godley LA. Identifying potential germline variants from sequencing hematopoietic malignancies. Blood 2020;136:2498-2506. 
20 Alder JK, Hanumanthu VS, Strong MA, et al. Diagnostic utility of telomere length testing in a hospital-based setting. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2018;115:E2358-E2365.
21 Schratz KE, Haley L, Danoff SK, et al. Cancer spectrum and outcomes in the Mendelian short telomere syndromes. Blood 2020;135:1946-1956.
22 Fargo JH, Kratz CP, Giri N, et al. Erythrocyte adenosine deaminase: diagnostic value for Diamond-Blackfan anaemia. Br J Haematol 2013;160:547-554.
23 Sébert M, Passet M, Raimbault A, et al. Germline DDX41 mutations define a significant entity within adult MDS/AML patients. Blood 2019;134:1441-1444.
24 Qu S, Li B, Qin T, et al. Molecular and clinical features of myeloid neoplasms with somatic DDX41 mutations. Br J Haematol 2021;192:1006-1010.
25 Choi EJ, Cho YU, Hur EH, et al. Unique ethnic features of DDX41 mutations in patients with idiopathic cytopenia of undetermined significance, myelodysplastic 
syndrome, or acute myeloid leukemia. Haematologica 2022;107:510-518. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
a The list of genes associated with heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndromes is continually evolving. Not all of the listed individual genes under the 
Gene column have been reported in myeloid malignancies.
b Notably, numbers are limited.
MDS-E
1 OF 10GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMESa
Germline predisposition for myeloid neoplasms without  cytopenia(s), dysplasia, or other organ dysfunction prior to myeloid malignancy presentation
Disorder GeneHematologic Findings/
Myeloid MalignancyLifetime Risk of  
MDS/AMLOther Phenotypes and Clinical Features
CEBPA1CEBPA AML~90% for germline 
N-terminal (frameshift) 
mutations1,2,3 and ~50% 
for germline C-terminal 
bZIP region mutationsb,4,5AML (not associated with MDS development) is typically favorable risk
and characterized by acquisition of a second somatic mutation in CEBPA.
The germline mutation most commonly affects the N-terminus whereas
the somatic mutation arises in the C-terminus bZIP region (predominantly
missense or in-frame indels) with different somatic mutations occurring
with AML recurrence.2 ~5% to 10% of CEBPA double-mutant AML cases
harbor germline mutations.6 Less commonly, familial AML due to germline 
mutations in the C-terminus bZIP region have also been reported.4,5
DDX41-
associated 
predisposition 
to myeloid 
malignancy7DDX41 AML, MDS, CML• Estimates vary. 
Penetrance is higher in 
males than females
• ~50% (estimated by an 
analysis of 1st degree 
relatives of patients 
with germline DDX41  
mutations with MDS/
AML)8
• ~3% (estimated by a UK 
Biobank population-based 
analysis)9Patients often have macrocytosis and/or cytopenias prior to myeloid
malignancy development.10 Median age of onset of myeloid malignancy
is ~ 66 y, like sporadic AML/MDS.11-14 Risk of myeloid malignancy
is negligible prior to ~ 40 y.8 Myeloid malignancy development is
associated with biallelic DDX41  mutations due to acquisition of a somatic
mutation in the wild-type allele in ~55% to 70% of AML/MDS cases. Most
commonly, the somatic mutation is R525H.8,12,13  AML is commonly
characterized by hypocellularity, low blast percentage, and a normal
karyotype.14,15
14q32.2 
genomic 
duplication16Includes 
ATG2B and 
GSKIPAML, MPN, CMML 
(highly penetrant)Not established Familial MPN. Earlier age of onset compared to sporadic MPN.
ContinuedReferences on MDS-E 8 of 10PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Germline predisposition for myeloid neoplasms with pre-existing cytopenia(s) and/or other organ dysfunction prior to myeloid malignancy presentation
Disorder GeneHematologic Findings/
Myeloid MalignancyLifetime Risk of  
MDS/AMLOther Phenotypes and Clinical Features
ANKRD2617ANKRD26Moderate thrombocytopenia with 
mild bleeding manifestations; 
platelet size is usually not enlarged; 
dysmegakaryopoiesis18/AML, MDS7.1%; 
CML incidence of 1.3%19Non-syndromic autosomal dominant thrombocytopenic
disorder characterized by normal platelet size, moderate 
thrombocytopenia, and absent or mild bleeding tendency.20
ETV621,22ETV6Thrombocytopenia and mild 
bleeding manifestations; platelet 
size is usually not enlarged23/AML, 
MDSNot establishedALL (typically precursor B-cell ALL) is more prevalent than
myeloid malignancy. The ratio of lymphoid versus myeloid
malignancies is approximately 2:1.21,23
MECOM-associated 
syndromeMECOM 
(MDS1 and 
EVI1 complex 
locus) on 
3q26.2Amegakaryocytic 
thrombocytopenia; B-cell deficiency; 
hypocellular marrow failure/
MDS24,25Not establishedSkeletal abnormalities including radioulnar synostosis, 
clinodactyly, cardiac and renal malformations, B-cell 
deficiency, and presenile hearing loss25,26
Also known as EVI1; MDS1; KMT8E; PRDM3; RUSAT2; 
MDS1-EVI1; AML1-EVI-1
GATA2 deficiency 
syndrome27,28 GATA2Bone marrow failure; 
monocytopenia/AML, MDS; B-/NK-/
CD4-cell lymphocytopenia; highly 
penetrant29Not established30,31Immune deficiency (ie, viral infections, warts, disseminated 
nontuberculous mycobacterial infections), wide range of 
extra-hematopoietic manifestations (eg, lymphedema, 
sensorineural hearing loss, pulmonary alveolar 
proteinosis)32; megakaryocyte atypia; pediatric MDS w/-7/
del(7q), trisomy 8, or der(1;7).33 Somatic reversion events 
are possible.31GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMESa
MDS-E
2 OF 10ContinuedReferences on MDS-E 8 of 10
a The list of genes associated with heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndromes is continually evolving. Not all of the listed individual genes under the 
Gene column have been reported in myeloid malignancies.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Germline predisposition for myeloid neoplasms with pre-existing cytopenia(s) and/or other organ dysfunction prior to myeloid malignancy presentation
Disorder GeneHematologic Findings/
Myeloid MalignancyLifetime Risk of 
MDS/AMLOther Phenotypes and Clinical Features
Familial platelet disorder 
with associated myeloid 
malignancyb,34,35RUNX1Thrombocytopenia and abnormal platelet 
function/AML, MDS; highly penetrantc 35%-40%36Typical age of onset of AML/MDS is 20–40 y. Anticipation 
may lead to occurrence in younger individuals in 
subsequent generations; eczema; ALL also seen.
LIG-4 syndrome37LIG4 Marrow failure, lymphoid malignancy Not established Short stature, microcephaly, combined immunodeficiency.
Xeroderma pigmentosum C 
(XPC)38,39 XPCdelTG Increased myeloid malignancies and 
T-cell ALL in people aged 7–29 y.Not establishedSensitivity to ultraviolet light, experiencing severe 
sunburns within minutes of exposure, dry skin 
(xeroderma), freckling (pigmentosum), hearing loss, 
poor coordination, loss of intellectual function, seizures, 
and development of squamous cell carcinomas and 
melanomas often as early as 10 y in sun-exposed areas.
ERCC6L240-42ERCC6L2 Marrow failure/AML, MDS Not establishedSkeletal/cardiac abnormalities, neurological defects 
also associated with somatic TP53 mutations and 
erythroleukemia. Pre-existing cytopenias, microcephaly, 
developmental delay, and other congenital abnormalities.GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMESa
MDS-E
3 OF 10Continueda The list of genes associated with heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndromes is continually evolving. Not all of the listed individual genes under the 
Gene column have been reported in myeloid malignancies. 
b Notably, numbers are limited.
c Additional laboratory testing: RUNX1 mutant platelets may show platelet ultrastructure changes such as abnormal alpha granules and a deficiency of delta granules. Platelet 
aggregometry and platelet function analyzer testing may show platelet aggregation and secretion defects, such as decreased aggregation to epinephrine and collagen (so 
called aspirin-like defect).References on MDS-E 8 of 10PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Germline predisposition for myeloid neoplasms with pre-existing cytopenia(s) and/or other organ dysfunction prior to myeloid malignancy presentation
Disorder GeneHematologic Findings/
Myeloid MalignancyLifetime Risk of 
MDS/AMLOther Phenotypes and Clinical Features
SAMD9/SAMD9L
syndromes31,43-45SAMD9
SAMD9LTransient or permanent cytopenias and 
hypocellular marrow failure/AML, MDSNot establishedMIRAGE (SAMD9): MDS, infection, restriction of growth, 
adrenal hypoplasia, genital phenotypes, and enteropathy; 
MDS with monosomy 7/-7q, somatic genetic aberrations in 
hematopoietic cells often occur that result in loss of the mutant 
SAMD9 allele.43
Ataxia-pancytopenia syndrome (SAMD9L): cerebellar 
atrophy and white matter hyperintensities, gait disturbance, 
nystagmus, immune deficiency; MDS with monosomy 7/-7q; 
somatic genetic aberrations in hematopoietic cells often occur 
that result in loss of the mutant SAMD9L allele.44
Can have overlap in phenotype between SAMD9 and 
SAMD9L disorders.
SRP7246SRP72 Marrow failure/MDS Not established Congenital sensorineural deafness.GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMESa
MDS-E
4 OF 10ContinuedReferences on MDS-E 8 of 10
a The list of genes associated with heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndromes is continually evolving. Not all of the listed individual genes under the 
Gene column have been reported in myeloid malignancies.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Classical inherited bone marrow failure syndromes
Disorder GeneHematologic Findings/
Myeloid MalignancyLifetime Risk of 
MDS/AMLOther Phenotypes and Clinical Features
Diamond-Blackfan 
anemiadRPL5, RPL11, RPL15, 
RPL23, RPL26, RPL27, 
RPL31, RPL35A, RPS7, 
RPS10, RPS17, RPS19, 
RPS24, RPS26, RPS27, 
RPS28, RPS29, TSR2, 
GATA1Anemia and marrow 
erythroid hypoplasia/AML, 
MDS~5% risk by  
45–50 y47,48Cardiac anomalies, Cathie facies, genitourinary anomalies, 
cleft lip/palate, short stature; sarcomas; elevated erythrocyte 
adenosine deaminase.
Fanconi anemiae,fFANCA, FANCB, FANCC, 
FANCD1/BRCA2, FANCD2, 
FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, 
FANCI, FANCJ/BRIP1/
BACH1, FANCL, FANCM, 
FANCN/PALB2, FANCO/
RAD51C, FANCP/SLX4, 
FANQ/ERCC4, FANCR/
RAD51, FANCS/BRCA1, 
FANCT/UBE2T, FANCU/
XRCC2, FANCV/REV7/
MAD2L2Bone marrow failure/AML, 
MDS10% AML 
90% bone 
marrow failure49Short stature, skin pigmentation (café-au-lait or 
hypopigmented spots), skeletal anomalies (thumbs, 
arms), multiple other congenital anomalies; squamous cell 
carcinomas of head/neck/vulva/vagina, liver tumors, additional 
solid tumors associated with FANCD1  include brain and 
Wilms tumors; therapy-related neoplasms may emerge after 
treatment for solid tumors; increased chromosome fragility.
Cumulative incidence of solid cancers is extremely high in 
patients with bi-allelic FANCD1/BRCA2  mutations (97% at the 
age of 7 y).
Shwachman-Diamond 
syndromeg SBDS, EFL1, DNAJC21Bone marrow failure/AML, 
MDSNot 
established50Pancreatic insufficiency, skeletal abnormalities; low serum 
trypsinogen or pancreatic isoamylase; somatic mutations in 
EIF6 & TP53.51
a The list of genes associated with heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndromes is continually evolving. Not all of the listed individual genes under the Gene 
column have been reported in myeloid malignancies. 
d Additional laboratory testing: Erythrocyte adenosine deaminase is often elevated.
e Some FA genes overlap with inherited breast and ovarian cancer genes. 
f Additional laboratory testing: Increased chromosomal breakage following exposure to a DNA cross-linking agent such as mitomycin C or diepoxybutane. Testing is typically 
performed on peripheral blood lymphocytes. A subset of patients may undergo genetic somatic reversion to wild-type in peripheral blood lymphocytes. This reversion confers a 
growth advantage over the non-reverted FA lymphocytes. In such cases, testing may appear normal, or reveal only a small subpopulation of cells with increased chromosomal 
breakage. If there is a strong clinical suspicion for FA despite a negative blood test, chromosomal breakage may be tested on fibroblasts obtained from a skin biopsy.
g Additional laboratory testing: Serum pancreatic isoamylase (pediatric and adult patients) and serum trypsinogen (pediatric patients) are often low .
MDS-E
5 OF 10GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMESa
ContinuedReferences on MDS-E 8 of 10PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Classical inherited bone marrow failure syndromes
Disorder GeneHematologic Findings/
Myeloid MalignancyLifetime Risk of 
MDS/AMLOther Phenotypes and Clinical Features
Short telomere 
syndromeshACD, CTC1, DKC1, NAF1, 
NHP2, NOP10, PARN, 
POT1, RTEL1, TERC, 
TERT, TINF2, WRAP53, 
ZCCHC852Bone marrow failure/AML, 
MDS10% with the highest 
risk above the age of 
50 y53-55Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, emphysema, early 
hair graying, osteoporosis, pulmonary arteriovenous 
malformations and hepatopulmonary syndrome, liver 
fibrosis-cirrhosis, esophageal stricture, enterocolitis, 
immune deficiency; rare cases manifest as dyskeratosis 
congenita with nail dystrophy, rash, oral leukoplakia; 
squamous cell carcinomas of head/neck/GI tract; 
shortened telomere lengths. 
Somatic reversion events are possible. 10% lifetime 
risk has a competing risk of mortality due to pulmonary 
fibrosis.
Congenital neutropeniaELANE, G6PC3, GFI1, 
HAX1Neutropenia/AML, MDSNot establishedG6PC3 mutations can be associated with congenital 
anomalies.56 HAX1 mutations can be associated with 
neurologic manifestations including seizures.57
Myeloid neoplasms 
associated with Down 
syndromeTrisomy 21, GATA1Transient abnormal 
myelopoiesis/AML, MDSNot established Down syndrome; acute megakaryoblastic leukemia.
a The list of genes associated with heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndromes is continually evolving. Not all of the listed individual 
genes under the Gene column have been reported in myeloid malignancies.
h Additional laboratory testing: Shortened telomere lengths measured by FISH assays on peripheral blood leukocyte subsets.
MDS-E
6 OF 10GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMESa
ContinuedReferences on MDS-E 8 of 10PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Germline predispositions for myeloid neoplasms and solid tumor cancers
Disorder GeneHematologic Findings/
Myeloid MalignancyLifetime Risk of 
MDS/AMLOther Phenotypes and Clinical Features
Constitutional 
mismatch repair 
deficiencyEPCAM, MLH1, 
MSH2, MSH6, PMS2AML, MDS Not establishedCafé-au-lait spots; ALL, lymphomas, central nervous system, 
GI, and other tumors; microsatellite instability of tumor cells. 
Hereditary breast 
and ovarian cancereBRCA1, BRCA2 AML, MDS Not establishedBreast and ovarian cancers, other tumors. Therapy-related 
neoplasms may emerge after treatment for solid tumors.
Li-Fraumeni 
syndromeTP53 AML, MDS70% for all cancers in 
males
90% for all cancers in 
femalesAML and MDS are associated with complex karyotypes as seen 
with somatic TP53 mutations; ALL, adrenocortical carcinoma, 
brain cancer, breast cancer, choroid plexus carcinoma, colon 
cancer, lung carcinoma, sarcoma, other tumors; therapy-related 
neoplasms may emerge after treatment for solid tumors. 
RASopathiesCBL, KRAS, NF1, 
PTPN11AML, MDS Not establishedMutations induce constitutive activation of RAS/MAPK 
pathways and cause many syndromic findings and hematologic 
and solid tumor cancer risk (neuro-cardio-fascio cutaneous 
syndrome), eg, neurofibromatosis type 1 and Noonan 
syndrome, which predispose to development of JMML or an 
MPN.
Other rare DNA 
repair syndromes BLM, MBD4, XPC37AML, MBD4: early-
onset AML with a high 
somatic mutation burden 
characterized by CG>TG 
changes including biallelic 
CG>TG mutations in 
DNMT3A58Not establishedBloom syndrome: pre- and postnatal growth retardation, 
photosensitive skin changes, immunodeficiency, insulin 
resistance, microcephaly, high-pitched voice, hypogonadism, 
and increased risk of early onset of multiple cancers.
MDS-E
7 OF 10GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMESa
References on MDS-E 8 of 10
a The list of genes associated with heritable hematologic malignancy predisposition syndromes is continually evolving. Not all of the listed individual genes under the 
Gene column have been reported in myeloid malignancies.
e Some FA genes overlap with inherited breast and ovarian cancer genes.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-E
8 OF 10GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
1 Smith ML, Cavenagh JD, Lister TA, Fitzgibbon J. Mutation of CEBPA in familial acute myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2004;351:2403-2407.
2 Tawana K, Wang J, Renneville A, et al. Disease evolution and outcomes in familial AML with germline CEBPA mutations. Blood 2015;126:1214-1223.
3 Renneville A, Mialou V, Philippe N, et al. Another pedigree with familial acute myeloid leukemia and germline CEBPA mutation. Leukemia 2009;23:804-806.
4 Pathak A, Seipel K, Pemov A, et al. Whole exome sequencing reveals a C-terminal germline variant in CEBPA-associated acute myeloid leukemia: 45-year follow up of 
a large family. Haematologica 2016;101:846-852.
5 Harrigan A, Trottier A. Hereditary acute myeloid leukemia associated with C-terminal CEBPA germline variants. Fam Cancer 2023;22:331-339.
6 Taskesen E, Bullinger L, Corbacioglu A, et al. Prognostic impact, concurrent genetic mutations, and gene expression features of AML with CEBPA mutations in a cohort 
of 1182 cytogenetically normal AML patients: further evidence for CEBPA double mutant AML as a distinctive disease entity. Blood 2011;117:2469-2475.
7 Polprasert C, Schulze I, Sekeres MA, et al. Inherited and somatic defects in DDX41 in myeloid neoplasms. Cancer Cell 2015;27:658-670.
8 Makishima H, Saiki R, Nannya Y, et al. Germ line DDX41 mutations define a unique subtype of myeloid neoplasms. Blood 2023;141:534-549.
9 Cheloor Kovilakam S, Gu M, Dunn WG, et al. Prevalence and significance of DDX41 gene variants in the general population. Blood 2023;142:1 185-1192.
10 Sebert M, Passet M, Raimbault A, et al. Germline DDX41 mutations define a significant entity within adult MDS/AML patients. Blood 2019;134:1441-1444.
11 Lewinsohn M, Brown AL, Weinel LM, et al. Novel germ line DDX41 mutations define families with a lower age of MDS/AML onset and lymphoid malignancies. Blood 
2016;127:1017-1023.
12 Li P, Brown S, Williams K, et al. The genetic landscape of germline DDX41 variants predisposing to myeloid neoplasms. Blood 2022;140:716-755.
13 Wan Z, Han B. Clinical features of DDX41 mutation - related diseases: a systematic review with individual patient data. Ther Adv Hematol 
2021;16:12:20406207211032433.
14 Li P, White T, Xie W, et al. AML with germline DDX41 variants is a clinicopathologically distinct entity with an indolent clinical course and favorable outcome. Leukemia 
2022;36:664-674.
15 Duployez N, Largeaud L, Duchmann M, et al. Prognostic impact of DDX41 germline mutations in intensively treated acute myeloid leukemia patients: an ALFA-FILO 
study. Blood 2022;140:756-768.
16 Saliba J, Saint-Martin C, Di Stefano A, et al. Germline duplication of ATG2B and GSKIP predisposes to familial myeloid malignancies. Nat Genet 2015;47:1131-1140.
17 Pippucci T, Savoia A, Perrotta S, et al. Mutations in the 5' UTR of ANKRD26, the ankirin repeat domain 26 gene, cause an autosomal-dominant form of inherited 
thrombocytopenia, THC2. Am J Hum Genet 2011;88:115-120.
18 Noris P, Perrotta S, Seri M, et al. Mutations in ANKRD26 are responsible for a frequent form of inherited thrombocytopenia: analysis of 78 patients from 21 families. 
Blood 2011;117:6673-6680.
19 Noris P, Favier R, Alessa MC, et al. ANKRD26-related thrombocytopenia and myeloid malignancies. Blood 2013;122:1987-1989.
20 Vyas H, Alcheikh A, Lowe G, et al. Prevalence and natural history of variants in the ANKRD26 gene: a short review and updated of reported cases. Platelets 
2022;33:1107-1112.
21 Noetzli L, Lo RW, Lee-Sherick AB, et al. Germline mutations in ETV6 are associated with thrombocytopenia, red cell macrocytosis and predisposition to lymphoblastic 
leukemia. Nat Genet 2015;47:535-538.Data for the table are derived from the references listed below and the following reviews and primary manuscripts:
• Furutani E, Shimamura A. Germline genetic predisposition to hematologic malignancy. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:1018-1028.
• Godley LA, Shimamura A. Genetic predisposition to hematologic malignancies: management and surveillance. Blood 2017;130:424-432.
• Wlodarski MW, Collin M, Horwitz MS. GATA2 deficiency and related myeloid neoplasms. Semin Hematol 2017;54:81-86.
• Churpek JE, Marquez R, Neistadt B, et al. Inherited mutations in cancer susceptibility genes are common among survivors of breast cancer who develop 
chemotherapy-related leukemia. Cancer 2016;122:304-311.
• Keel SB, Scott A, Sanchez-Bonilla M, et al. Genetic features of myelodysplastic syndrome and aplastic anemia in pediatric and young adult patients. Haematologica 
2016;101:1343-1350 .REFERENCES
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-E
9 OF 1022 Zhang MY, Churpek JE, Keel SB, et al. Germline ETV6 mutations in familial thrombocytopenia and hematologic malignancy. Nat Genet 2015;47:180-185.
23 Melazzini F, Palombo F, Balduini A, et al. Clinical and pathogenic features of ETV6-related thrombocytopenia with predisposition to acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 
Haematologica 2016;101:1333-1342.
24 Ripperger T, Hofmann W, Koch JC, et al. MDS1 and EVI1 complex locus (MECOM): a novel candidate gene for hereditary hematological malignancies. 
Haematologica 2018;103:e55-e58.
25 Venugopal P, Arts P, Fox LC, et al. Unraveling facets of MECOM-associated syndrome: somatic genetic rescue, clonal hematopoiesis, and phenotype expansion. 
Blood Adv 2024;8:3437-3443.
26 Germeshausen M, Ancliff P, Estrada J, et al. MECOM-associated syndrome: a heterogeneous inherited bone marrow failure syndrome with amegakaryocytic 
thrombocytopenia. Blood Adv 2018;2:586-596.
27 Ostergaard P, Simpson MA, Connell FC, et al. Mutations in GATA2 cause primary lymphedema associated with a predisposition to acute myeloid leukemia (Emberger 
syndrome). Nat Genet 2011;43:929-931.
28 Hahn CN, Chong CE, Carmichael CL, et al. Heritable GATA2 mutations associated with familial myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia. Nat Genet 
2011;43:1012-1017.
29 Spinner MA, Sanchez LA, Hsu AP, et al. GATA2 deficiency: a protean disorder of hematopoiesis, lymphatics, and immunity. Blood 2014;123:809-821.
30 Sahoo SS, Kozyra EJ, Wlodarski MW. Germline predisposition in myeloid neoplasms: Unique genetic and clinical features of GATA2 deficient and SAMD9/SAMD9L 
syndromes. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol 2020;33:101197.
31 Sahoo SS, Pastor VB, Goodings C, et al. Clinical evolution, genetic landscape and trajectories of clonal hematopoiesis in SAMD9/SAMD9L  syndromes. Nat Med 
2021;27:1806-1817.
32 Wlodarski MW, Collin M, Horwitz MS. GATA2 deficiency and related myeloid neoplasms. Semin Hematol 2017;54:81-86.
33 Arai H, Matsui H, Chi S, et al. Germline variants and characteristic features of hereditary hematological malignancy syndrome. Int J Mol Sci 2024;25:652.
34 Song WJ, Sullivan MG, Legare RD, et al. Haploinsufficiency of CBFA2 causes familial thrombocytopenia with propensity to develop acute myelogenous leukaemia. 
Nat Genet 1999;23:166-175.
35 Weiss HJ, Chervenick PA, Zalusky R, Factor A. A familial defect in platelet function associated with impaired release of adenosine diphosphate. N Engl J Med 
1969;281:1264-1270.
36 West A, Godley L, Churpek J. Familiar myelodysplastic syndrome/acute leukemia syndromes: a review and utility for translational investigations. Ann N Y Acad Sci 
2014;1310:111-118.
37 Chistiakov DA, Voronova NV, Chistiakov AP. Ligase IV syndrome. Eur J Med Genet 2009;52:373-378.
38 Sarasin A, Quentin S, Droin N, et al. Familial predisposition to TP53/complex karyotype MDS and leukemia in DNA repair-deficient xeroderma pigmentosum. Blood 
2019;133:2718-2724.
39 Oetjen KA, Levoska MA, Tamura D, et al. Predisposition to hematologic malignancies in patients with xeroderma pigmentosum. Haematologica 2020;105:e144-e146.
40 Tummala H, Dokal AD, Walne A, et al. Genome instability is a consequence of transcription deficiency in patients with bone marrow failure harboring biallelic 
ERCC6L2 variants. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2018;115:7777-7782.
41 Tummala H, Kirwan M, Walne AJ, et al. ERCC6L2 mutations link a distinct bone-marrow-failure syndrome to DNA repair and mitochondrial function. Am J Hum Genet 
2014;94:246-256.
42 Douglas SPM, Siipola P, Kovanen PE, et al. ERCC6L2 defines a novel entity within inherited acute myeloid leukemia. Blood 2019;133:2724-2728.
43 Narumi S, Amano N, Ishii T, et al. SAMD9 mutations cause a novel multisystem disorder, MIRAGE syndrome, and are associated with loss of chromosome 7. Nat 
Genet 2016;48:792-797.
44 Tesi B, Davidsson J, Voss M, et al. Gain-of-function SAMD9L mutations cause a syndrome of cytopenia, immunodeficiency, MDS, and neurological symptoms. Blood 
2017;129:2266-2279.GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
REFERENCES
ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MDS-E
10 OF 1045 Chen DH, Below JE, Shimamura A, et al. Ataxia-pancytopenia syndrome is caused by missense mutations in SAMD9L. Am J Hum Genet 2016;98:1146-1158.
46 Kirwan M, Walne AJ, Plagnol V, et al. Exome sequencing identifies autosomal-dominant SRP72 mutations associated with familial aplasia and myelodysplasia. Am J 
Hum Genet 2012;90:888-892.
47 Alter B, Giri N, Savage S, Rosenberg PS. Cancer in the National Cancer Institute inherited bone marrow failure syndrome cohort after fifteen years of follow-up. 
Haematologica 2018;103:30-39.
48 Vlachos A, Rosenberg PS, Atsidaftos E. Incidence of neoplasia in Diamond Blackfan anemia: a report from the Diamond Blackfan Anemia Registry. Blood 
2012;119:3815-3819.
49 Alter B. Fanconi anemia and the development of leukemia. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol 2014;27:214-221.
50 Myers KC, Furutani E, Weller E, et al. Clinical features and outcomes of patients with Shwachman-Diamond syndrome and myelodysplastic syndrome or acute 
myeloid leukaemia: a multicentre, retrospective, cohort study. Lancet Haematol 2020;7:e238-e246.
51 Kennedy AL, Myers KC, Bowman J, et al. Distinct genetic pathways define pre-malignant versus compensatory clonal hematopoiesis in Shwachman-Diamond 
syndrome. Nat Commun 2021;12:1334. 
52 Gable DL, Gaysinskaya V, Atik CC, et al. ZCCHC8, the nuclear exosome targeting component, is mutated in familial pulmonary fibrosis and is required for telomerase 
RNA maturation. Genes Dev 2019:33;1381-1396.
53 Schratz KE, Haley L, Danoff SK, et al. Cancer spectrum and outcomes in the Mendelian short telomere syndromes. Blood 2020;135:1946-1956.
54 Schratz KE, Gaysinskaya V, Cosner ZL, et al. Somatic reversion impacts myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia evolution in the short telomere 
disorders. J Clin Invest 2021;131:e147598.
55 Schratz KE, Flasch DA, Atik CC, et al. T cell immune deficiency rather than chromosome instability predisposes patients with short telomere syndromes to squamous 
cancers. Cancer Cell 2023;41:807-817.
56 Boztug K, Appaswamy G, Ashikov A, et al. A syndrome with congenital neutropenia and mutations in G6PC3. N Engl J Med 2009;360:32-43.
57 Germeshausen M, Grudzien M, Zeidler C, et al. Novel HAX1 mutations in patients with severe congenital neutropenia reveal isoform-dependent genotype-phenotype 
associations. Blood 2008;111:4954-4957.
58 Sanders MA, Chew E, Flensburg C, et al. MBD4 guards against methylation damage and germ line deficiency predisposes to clonal hematopoiesis and early-onset 
AML. Blood 2018;132:1526-1534.GENE MUTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH HEREDITARY MYELOID MALIGNANCY PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
REFERENCESPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Initial Evaluation  (MDS-1)
• FCM:
Consideration should be given to obtain FCM testing at initial evaluation of MDS to include antibody combinations to characterize blasts 
and to identify abnormal lymphoid populations (such as increased hematogones, which may mimic blasts, leading to erroneous  
myeloblast quantitation). For example, a combination using anti-CD45, -CD34, -CD33, and -CD19 (with forward scatter and side scatter) 
could be useful. 
It is understood that the blast percent for both diagnosis and risk stratification should be determined by morphologic assessment, not 
solely by FCM. If blasts are increased and morphologic questions arise regarding their subtype (ie, myeloid or lymphoid), they should be 
characterized with a more elaborate panel of antibodies.
In diagnostically difficult cases, in expert hands, an expanded panel of antibodies to demonstrate abnormal differentiation patterns or 
aberrant antigen expression may help confirm diagnosis of MDS (see Initial Evaluation  in the Discussion). 
Flow cytometric abnormalities are often seen in MDS, and in some cases may correlate with observed morphologic abnormalities. 
They may also help diagnostically in patients with clinical suspicion of MDS who have no significant morphologic dysplasia and whose 
chromosome/FISH studies are either negative or normal. 
FCM is most useful in detecting aberrant immature myeloid lineages often observed in MDS.1-6 Flow analysis will detect aberrant 
expression of B- or T-cell antigens on myeloid precursors, and selective loss or gain of additional markers (eg, loss or dim expression 
of CD33, CD34, CD56, CD38, or CD117) on myeloid precursors. Flow will help in cytopenia associated with LGL expansion by detecting 
increase of CD56/CD57+ cells. CMML-associated monocytic aberrancies can be easily detected by a combination of CD64/CD14, and 
CD16 loss or dim6 expression. In addition, qualitative abnormalities in mature myeloid lineages, eg, hypogranular late myelocytes, bands/
Pelger-Huet cells, and neutrophils will have abnormal flow patterns (low or negative for CD16 or CD10). However , the erythroid lineage 
dysplasia (dyserythropoiesis) detection by FCM is limited4,7 due to variable RBC lysing methods used in preparing flow mononuclear cell 
suspension. Megakaryocytic dysplasia cannot be assessed in FCM. 
MDS-FRECOMMENDATIONS FOR FLOW CYTOMETRY
1 Bellos F, Kern W. Flow cytometry in the diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndromes and the value of myeloid nuclear differentiation antigen. Cytometry B Clin Cytom 
2017;92:200-206.
2 Cremers EM, Westers TM, Alhan C, et al. Multiparameter flow cytometry is instrumental to distinguish myelodysplastic syndromes  from non-neoplastic cytopenias. Eur 
J Cancer 2016;54:49-56.
3 Della Porta MG, Picone C. Diagnostic utility of flow cytometry in myelodysplastic syndromes. Mediterr J Hematol Infect Dis 2017;9:e2017017.
4 Westers TM, Ireland R, Kern W, et al. Standardization of flow cytometry in MDS: a report from an international consortium and the EuLeuNet Working Group. Leukemia 
2012;26:1730-1741.
5 Porwit A, van de Loosdrecht AA, Bettelheim P, et al. Revisiting guidelines for integration of flow cytometry results in the WHO classification of myelodysplastic 
syndromes-proposal from the International/European LeukemiaNet W orking Group for Flow Cytometry in MDS. Leukemia 2014;28:1793-1798.
6 Selimoglu-Buet D, Wagner-Ballon O, Saada V, et al. Characteristic repartition of monocyte subsets as a diagnostic signature of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. 
Blood 2015;125:3618-3626.
7 Alhan C, Westers TM, Cremers EM, et al. Application of flow cytometry for myelodysplastic syndromes: Pitfalls and technical considerations. Cytometry B Clin Cytom 
2016;90:358-367.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
aCML atypical chronic myeloid leukemia
ALL acute lymphoblastic leukemia
AMC absolute monocyte count
AML acute myeloid leukemia 
AML-t AML transformation
APL acute promyelocytic leukemia
ASTCT American Society for Transplantation 
and Cellular Therapy
ATG antithymocyte globulin
BPDCN blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell 
neoplasm
CBC complete blood count 
CCUS clonal cytopenia of undetermined 
significance
CGAT chromosome genomic array testing
CHIP clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate 
potential
CHRS clonal hematopoiesis risk score
CMA chromosome microarray analysis
CML chronic myeloid leukemia
CMML chronic myelomonocytic leukemia
CMV cytomegalovirus
cnLOH copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity
CNV copy number variant
CSA congenital sideroblastic anemia
EB excess blasts
ESA erythropoiesis-stimulating agentFA Fanconi anemia
FAB French American British
FCM flow cytometry
FISH fluorescence in situ hybridization 
G-CSF granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 
GI gastrointestinal 
H high
H&P history and physical 
HCT hematopoietic cell transplant
HIV human immunodeficiency virus
HLA human leukocyte antigen 
HMA hypomethylating agent
HMMPS hereditary myeloid malignancy 
predisposition syndromes
IB increased blasts
ICC International Consensus Classification
ICUS idiopathic cytopenia of unknown 
significance
IPSS International Prognostic Scoring 
System
IPSS-M International Prognostic Scoring 
System Molecular
IPSS-R Revised International Prognostic 
Scoring System
IST immunosuppressive therapy
IWG International Working GroupJMML juvenile myelomonocytic 
leukemia
L low
LB low blasts
LDH lactate dehydrogenase
LFS leukemia-free survival
LGL large granular lymphocyte
LOH loss of heterozygosity
MD myelodysplastic
MDS myelodysplastic syndromes(s)
MH moderate high
mIDH1 mutant IDH1
ML moderate low
MLD multilineage dysplasia
MP myeloproliferative
MPN myeloproliferative neoplasm(s)
NGS next-generation sequencing 
NOS not otherwise specified
OS overall survival
PCR polymerase chain reaction 
PNH paroxysmal nocturnal 
hemoglobinuriaABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-1ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
RAEB refractory anemia with excess blasts
RARS refractory anemia with ring 
sideroblasts
RCMD refractory cytopenia with 
multilineage dysplasia
RCUD refractory cytopenia with unilineage 
dysplasia
RBC red blood cell 
RS ring sideroblasts
RS-T ring sideroblasts and thrombocytosis
SLD single lineage dysplasia
SM-
AHNsystemic mastocytosis with 
associated hematologic neoplasm
T thrombocytosis
TIBC total iron-binding capacity
T-LGL T-cell large granular lymphocyte
TSH thyroid-stimualting hormone
U unclassifiedABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-2VAF variant allele frequency 
VH very high
VL very low
WBC white blood cell 
WPSS World Health Organization-Based 
Prognostic Scoring System
XPC xeroderma pigmentosum CPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
Version 2.2025, 01/17/2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CAT-1NCCN Categories of Evidence and Consensus
Category 1 Based upon high-level evidence (≥1 randomized phase 3 trials or high-quality , robust meta-analyses), there is 
uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 2A Based upon lower-level evidence, there is uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 2B Based upon lower-level evidence, there is NCCN consensus (≥50%, but <85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 3 Based upon any level of evidence, there is major NCCN disagreement that the intervention is appropriate. 
All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
NCCN Categories of Preference
Preferred interventionInterventions that are based on superior efficacy, safety, and evidence; and, when appropriate, 
affordability.
Other recommended 
interventionOther interventions that may be somewhat less efficacious, more toxic, or based on less mature data; 
or significantly less affordable for similar outcomes.
Useful in certain 
circumstancesOther interventions that may be used for selected patient populations (defined with recommendation).
All recommendations are considered appropriate.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-1 Discussion  
Table of Contents  
Overview  ................................ ................................ ........................  MS-2 
Guidelines Update Methodology  ................................ ..................  MS-2 
Literature Search Criteria  ................................ ..............................  MS-2 
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage  ................................ ............  MS-2 
Diagnostic Classification ................................ ..............................  MS-3 
Myelodysplastic Syndromes  ................................ ..........................  MS-3 
Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasms  ..............................  MS-5 
Indolent Myeloid Hematopoietic Disorders  ................................ .... MS-7 
Childhood MDS  ................................ ................................ ............  MS-8 
Evaluation  ................................ ................................ ....................  MS-10 
Initial Evaluation  ................................ ................................ .........  MS-10 
Additional Testing  ................................ ................................ ....... MS-13 
Evaluation of Related Anemia  ................................ .....................  MS-15 
Prognostic Stratification ................................ .............................  MS-15 
Prognostic Scoring Systems  ................................ .......................  MS-15 
Molecular Abnormalities in MDS  ................................ ................  MS-19 
Comorbidity Indices  ................................ ................................ .... MS-20 
Therapeutic Options ................................ ................................ .... MS-20  
 
 
Supportive Care  ................................ ................................ .........  MS-21 
Treatment of Related Anemia  ................................ .....................  MS-25 
Low-Intensity Therapy  ................................ ................................  MS-29 
High -Intensity Therapy  ................................ ...............................  MS-35 
Targeted Therapy  ................................ ................................ ...... MS-36 
Recommended Treatment Approaches  ................................ ..... MS-38 
Therapy for Lower -Risk Disease (IPSS Low, Intermediate- 1; IPSS- R 
Very Low, Low, Intermediate; or WPSS Very Low, Low, Intermediate) ................................ ................................ ................................ .. MS-
38 
Therapy for Higher -Risk Disease (IPSS Intermediate -2, High; IPSS -R 
Intermediate, High, Very High; or WPSS High, Very High)  ..........  MS-41 
Summary  ................................ ................................ .....................  MS-44 
References  ................................ ................................ ..................  MS-45 
  
 
 
 
  This discussion corresponds to the NC CN Guidelines for Myelodysplastic Syndromes. Last updated: January  17, 202 5 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-2 Overview 
The myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) represent myeloid clonal 
hemopathies with a relatively heterogeneous spectrum of presentation.  
Diagnosis and disease stratification are based on multiple factors that 
include clinical data, morphology of peripheral blood and bone marrow, 
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), cytogenetics, flow cytometry, and 
next-generation sequencing myeloid mutation studies.  The major clinical 
morbidities associated with these disorders are cytopenia- associated 
complications and the po tential for MDS to evolve into acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML). In addition, chronic transfusions, treatment toxicity, and in 
some cases, secondary phenomena such as systemic inflammatory 
conditions  can increase the complexity of care for patients with MDS .1 In 
the general population, the incidence rate of MDS is approximately 4. 5 per 
100,000 people per year.2 MDS is rare among children/adolescents and 
young adults . Accounting for 1.6% of patients diagnosed with MDS, 
individuals <40 years of age have an incidence of 0.1 per 100,000 people 
per year . However, among individuals between ages 70 and 79 years, the 
incidence rate increases to 26.9  per 100,000 people, and further to 55.4  
per 100,000 people among those ≥80 years of age .2  
The management of MDS is complicated by the generally advanced age 
of the patients , median age 77 years,3 the non- hematologic comorbidities  
commonly seen in this cohort , and the relative inability of patients who are 
older to tolerate certain intensive forms of therapy. In addition, when the 
illness progresses into AML, these patients experience lower response rates to standard therapy than patients with de novo AML.
4 
The multidisciplinary P anel of experts for the NCCN Clinical Practice 
Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®) for Myelo dysplastic 
Syndromes meets annually to update recommendations on standard 
approaches to the diagnosis and treatment of MDS in adults. These recommendations are based on a review of recent clinical evidence that has led to important advances in treatment or has yielded new information 
on biologic factors that may have prognostic significance in MDS.  
Guidelines Update Methodology  
The complete details of the Development and Update of the NCCN 
Guidelines are available at www.NCCN.org . 
Literature Search Criteria 
Prior to the update of the NCCN Guidelines® for Myelodysplastic 
Syndromes, an electronic search of the PubMed database was 
performed to obtain key literature in MDS published since the previous 
Guidelines update, using the search term: myelodysplastic syndrome. 
The PubMed database was chosen becaus e it remains the most widely 
used resource for medical literature and indexes peer -reviewed 
biomedical literature .5 
The search results were narrowed by selecting studies in humans 
published in English. Results were confined to the following article types: 
Clinical Trial,  Phase II; Clinical Trial,  Phase III; Clinical Trial,  Phase IV; 
Guideline; Practice Guideline; Meta -Analysis; Randomized Controlled 
Trial; Systematic Reviews; and Validation Studies.  The data from key 
PubMed articles as well as articles from additional sources deemed as 
relevant to these guidelines as discussed by the Panel during the 
Guidelines update have been included in this version of the Discussion section.  Recommendations for which high -level evidence is lacking are 
based on the Panel’s review of lower -level evidence and expert opinion.    
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage  
NCCN Guidelines strive to use language that advances the goals of 
equity, inclusion, and representation.6 NCCN Guidelines endeavor to use 
language that is person- first; not stigmatizing; anti -racist, anti -classist, 
anti-misogynist, anti -ageist, anti -ableist, and anti -weight biased; and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-3 inclusive of individuals of all sexual orientations and gender identities. 
NCCN Guidelines incorporate non -gendered language, instead focusing 
on organ -specific recommendations. This language is both more 
accurate and more inclusive and can help fully addr ess the needs of 
individuals of all sexual orientations and gender identities. NCCN Guidelines will continue to use the terms men, women, female, and male 
when citing statistics, recommendations, or data from organizations or 
sources that do not use inclus ive terms. Most studies do not report how 
sex and gender data are collected and use these terms interchangeably or inconsistently. If sources do not differentiate gender from sex 
assigned at birth or organs present, the information is presumed to 
predomina ntly represent cisgender individuals. NCCN encourages 
researchers to collect more specific data in future studies and organizations to use more inclusive and accurate language in their future 
analyses.  
Diagnostic Classification  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes  
The initial evaluation of patients with suspected MDS requires careful 
assessment of the peripheral blood smear and blood counts, marrow 
morphology, cytogenetics, duration of abnormal blood counts, other 
potential causes of cytopenias, and concomitant illnesses. To establish the 
diagnosis of MDS, careful morphologic review and correlation with the 
patient’s clinical features are important, because a number of medications 
and viral infections (including human immunodeficiency virus [ HIV] 
infection) can cause morphologic changes in marrow cells that are similar 
to MDS.4,7 The NCCN Guidelines for Myelodysplastic Syndromes include 
the World Health Organization ( WHO ) 2016  and 2022 and the 
International Consensus Classification (ICC)  2022 classification system s 
for diagnostic evaluations .8,9 To assist in providing consistency in the diagnostic guidelines for MDS, an 
International Consensus Working Group recommended that minimal 
diagnostic criteria for this disease include two prerequisites: stable 
cytopenia (for at least 6 months unless accompanied by a specific 
karyotype or bilineage dysplasia, in which case only 2 months of stable 
cytopenias are needed) , and the exclusion of other potential disorders as 
a primary reason for dysplasia or cytopenia or both. In addition, the diagnosis of MDS requires at least one of three MDS -related (decisive) 
criteria: 1) dysplasia (≥10% in one or more of the three major bone marrow 
lineages); 2) a blast cell count of 5%  to 19%; and 3) a specific 
MDS -associated karyotype [eg, del(5q), del(20q), +8, or -7/del(7q)] . 
Furthermore, several co- criteria may help confirm the diagnosis of MDS. 
These co- criteria include aberrant immunophenotype by flow cytometry, 
abnormal bone marrow histology and immunohistochemistry, or the 
presence of molecular markers (ie, abnormal CD 34 antigen expression, 
fibrosis, dysplastic megakaryocytes, atypical localization of immature 
progenitors, myeloid clonality).
10  
Consistent with these recommendations, as stated by WHO, the features 
that are central for the diagnosis of MDS entail well -defined dysplasia in 
one or more hematopoietic cell lines in addition to cytopenias. Cytopenias need to be persistent (for at least 4– 6 months) and lack other underlying 
conditions serving as a primary cause of the cytopenia.
11 Further, 
analyses of studies including the MDS databases, which generated the 
International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) and Revised IPSS 
(IPSS- R), have shown that the use of standard  hematologic values to 
define cytopenic cut points for MDS diagnosis  are more appropriate than 
the WHO -recommended prognostic  cytopenia cut points.12  
In 2001, WHO proposed an alternative classification for MDS that was modified from the original French- American -British (FAB) definitions.
13-15 
The 2022 WHO classification uses the abbreviation “MDS”  for PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-4 myelodysplastic neoplasms instead of myelodysplastic syndromes.8 As 
such, when  referring to the 2022 WHO classification  in this discussion, 
“MDS” refers to myelodysplastic neoplasms. However, the abbreviation 
“MDS/MPN” refers  to myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm. The 
2022 WHO guidelines identify multiple  entities of MDS  classified as 
genetically defined MDS : MDS  with low blasts and isolated 5q deletion 
(MDS -5q; previously MDS -del(5q)) , MDS  with low blasts and SF3B1 
mutation (MDS -SF3B1 ; previously MDS with ring sideroblasts [ MDS -RS]), 
MDS with biallelic TP53 inactivation ( MDS -biTP53) ; or classified as 
morphologically defined MDS: MDS  with low blasts (MDS -LB; previously 
MDS with single lineage dysplasia [MDS -SLD] and MDS with multilineage 
dysplasia [MDS -MLD] ), MDS -hypoplastic, MDS  with increased blasts 1 
(MDS -IB1; previously MDS with excess blasts 1 [ MDS -EB1]), MDS  with 
increased blasts 2 (MDS -IB2; previously MDS -EB2) , and MDS with 
fibrosis  (see Pathologic -morphologic classifications of myelodysplastic 
neoplasms 2023  in the algorithm).8 The ICC system identifies the following 
MDS entities: MDS -del(5q), MDS -SF3B1 , myeloid neoplasms with TP53  
mutation, MDS not otherwise specified ( MDS -NOS ), MDS with excess 
blasts ( MDS -EB), and MDS/AML.  The Panel cautions that classifications 
alone do not imply therapeutic choice.  
The del(5q) entity is defined by the presence of this deletion and can 
include one additional cytogenetic abnormality, with the exception of 
monosomy 7 or del(7q), which is associated with poor outcomes.16 The 
modification of this definition stemmed from data that showed a prognostic 
stratification among patients with del(5q) based on the number of 
additional cytogenetic abnormalities compared to the single mutation 
del(5q).17-19  
The division between MDS and AML is a continued area of debate. The original FAB definition of MDS included patients with up to 30% blasts. 
The 2001 WHO classification reduced the upper limit for blast percentage for MDS to 19%, rather than the previous cutoff of 29%, thereby 
reclassifying these patients as “AML with myelodysplasia- related 
changes.”
20 It was noted in the 2008 WHO classification that some 
patients with AML with myelodysplasia- related changes who have 20% to 
29% marrow blasts may behave in a manner more similar to MDS than to AML. Data suggest that these patients have less aggressive dis ease and 
improved outcomes and therapeutic responses compared to patients with >30% blasts and should be considered a favorable group of AML.
21 The 
NCCN Panel recognizes that MDS are not only related to blast 
quantitation, but they also possess a differing pace of disease related to 
distinctive biologic features when compared with de novo AML.22,23 
Therefore, patients who have 20% to 29% marrow blasts may be 
considered to have MDS or AML.  A 20% blast cut off for AML evolving out 
of MDS and MDS -EB2 may be arbitrary in some clinical scenarios. 
AML-style therapies may be considered for appropriate patients with 
MDS -EB2, especially at younger ages of presentation. Furthermore, a 
diagnosis of AML may be made with <20% in patients with certain 
cytogenetic abnormalities  per ICC  (See NCCN Guidelines for Acute 
Myeloid Leukemia ). Some clinical trials designed for high- grade MDS may 
allow the enrollment of patients with AML -MDS.24,25 Some patients with 
higher -risk disease with WHO 2022 MDS -IB2 and ICC MDS/AML  could be 
considered for AML -type therapy.8,9 Patients who have previously been 
included in and benefitted from therapeutic trials for MDS should continue 
to be eligible for MDS -type therapy. The clinician should consider such 
factors as age, antecedent factors, cytogenetics, comorbidities, pace of 
disease, performance status, and the patient’s goal of treatment. This 
recommendation is further supported by the results from several validation studies and analyses.
26-30  
The WHO classifications were  revised to improve both the diagnostic and 
prognostic capabilities of these entities. MDS with del(5q) generally has a 
relatively good prognosis16 and is highly responsive to lenalidomide PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-5 therapy.31 With a moderate degree of variability, patients with MDS -EB or 
MDS -EB in transformation ( MDS -EB-T) generally have a relatively poor 
prognosis, with a median survival ranging from 5 to 12 months. In contrast, 
patients with MDS -RS-SLD (RA) or MDS -RS have a median survival of 
approximately 3 to 6 years. The proportion of these individuals with 
disease that transforms to AML ranges from 5% to 15% in the low -risk 
MDS -RS-SLD/ MDS -RS group to 40% to 50% in the relatively high -risk 
MDS -EB/MDS- EB-T group. In a study evaluating time- to-disease 
evolution, 25% of MDS -EB cases and 55% of MDS -EB-T cases underwent 
transformation to AML in the first year, increasing to 35% of MDS -EB 
cases and 65% of MDS -EB-T cases within 2 years.4 In contrast, the 
incidence of transformation for RA was 5% in the first year and 10% within 
2 years. None of the patients with MDS -RS developed leukemia within 2 
years.  
Biologic evidence indicates that similar clinical phenotypes, including lower 
blast counts, older age, lower white blood cell (WBC) counts, and higher 
erythroblast counts in bone marrow, are seen in patients with splicing 
factor (SF) mutations among the MD S-EB, MDS -EB-T, and some AML 
categories compared with SF- non-mutated cases. This suggests that 
SF-mutated cases comprised a distinct entity among MDS/AML32,33 and 
that SF- mutant MDS -EB/MDS- EB-T constitutes a related disorder 
overriding the artificial separation between AML and MDS. AML evolving 
from MDS (AML -MDS) is often more resistant to standard cytotoxic 
chemotherapy than is de novo AML, especially those AM L cases that do 
not have TP53 mutations nor those typical of secondary MDS,33 which 
arises without a known antecedent hematologic disorder. High- risk MDS, 
AML-MDS, and some older  patients with AML may have a more indolent 
clinical course in terms of short -term progression compared with patients 
who have standard presentations of de novo AML. This emphasizes the 
need to treat at least some patients with a standard presentation of de  novo AML33 differently than patients with indolent MDS (see NCCN 
Guidelines for Acute Myeloid Leukemia).  
Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasms 
The category of MDS/MPN was added to the 2008 update of the WHO 
classification of myeloid neoplasms.34 In the 2022 update, t his category 
includes chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) -1 and CMML -2, 
MDS/MPN and neutrophilia (previously aCML) , MDS/MPN with SF3B1  
mutation and thrombocytosis  (previously MDS/MPN with ring sideroblasts 
[RS] and thrombocytosis) , and MDS/MPN NOS (previously MDS/MPN 
unclassifiable) .8 (See MDS/MPN , Classification  in the algorithm).  Juvenile 
myelomonocytic leukemia (JMM L) is classified as  a myeloproliferative 
neoplasm.   
In the ICC, CMML has been subdivided into two groups based on 
molecular and clinical differences: CMML -myelodysplastic  (WBC  count  
≤13 x 109/L) and CMML -myeloproliferative (WBC count > 13 x 109/L).9 In 
addition to the WBC count, the percentage of blasts plus monocytes in the 
peripheral blood and bone marrow has demonstrated prognostic 
significance. Two blast -based groups are included in the WHO 2022  
classification: CMML -1 for patients with < 10% bone marrow blasts  or 
blasts equivalents ; and CMML -2 for patients with 10 to <20% bone 
marrow blasts  or blasts equivalents.8 Mutations in the following genes are 
frequently associated with CMML: TET2, SRSF2 , ASXL1 , RUNX1 , NRAS , 
and CBL.35,36  
The management of CMML depends on the characteristics of the patient’s 
disease and is typically focused on supportive care and cytoreductive 
therapy.37 In patients with CMML- 1 and CMML -2, decitabine and 
azacitidine (AzaC) have demonstrated efficacy ,37-41 and emerging data 
suggest utility  of ruxolitinib in this context.42 Patients with higher -risk 
IPSS- R and those with lower -risk IPSS- R with poor -risk genetic features, PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-6 profound cytopenias, and high transfusion burden are candidates for 
hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).37,39,43,44 Patients with CMML may 
have disease that responds to ruxolitinib for symptomatic disease .42,45 
Consider the exclusion of other abnormalities associated with 
myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms  with eosinophilia and tyrosine kinase gene 
fusions (ie, PDGFRA /PDGFRB -r, FGFR1 -r, or PCM1 ::JAK2 ; using FISH or 
RNA sequencing) to establish a diagnosis of CMML.  Patients with a 
t(5;12) translocation associated with the ETV6 ::PDGFRβ  fusion gene may 
respond to imatinib mesylate.37,46,47 Patients with CMML may also have 
systemic mastocytosis  with an associated hematologic neoplasm  (SM-
AHN) and KIT 816V mutation responsive to midostaurin.48,49 Molecular 
testing with a high -sensitivity polymerase chain reaction is required to 
detect KIT D816V . Hypomethylating agents ( HMAs ) or hydroxyurea may 
be considered for patients with CMML -1. HMAs , with or without 
venetoclax , and/or allogeneic HCT, is recommended for patients with 
CMML -2. In non- transplant candidates, the risk of cytopenias with the 
addition of venetoclax should be carefully considered. Ruxolitinib may be added to HMAs for symptom management or splenomegaly for CMML- 2.  
MDS/MPN and neutrophilia (termed aCML in the ICC) , is rare and has 
similar neutrophilia as the chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL) subtype of 
MPN. However, molecular characterization may distinguish the two 
entities. The presence of CSF3R mutations is strongly associated with 
CNL but is present in <10% of  cases.
50,51 Other MPN -associated driver 
mutations (ie, JAK2, CALR, MPL ) are uncommon. The presence of 
SETBP1 or ETNK1 mutations (or both) is reported in up to one  third of 
patients .52-56 The use of HMAs  in MDS/MPN and neutrophilia is a rational 
application of their established activity in MDS and CMML.57-59 Emerging 
data suggest that rare patients with CSF3R  or JAK2 mutations may 
respond to ruxolitinib therapy  due to their JAK -STAT pathway 
activation.58,60,61 Although the data on HCT procedures are  limited, 
allogeneic HCT is the only treatment modality that can induce long- term remissions in aCML.54,57,58,62 HMA s and/or ruxolitinib and/or allogeneic 
HCT may be considered for patients with MDS/MPN and neutrophilia.57,61 
MDS -RS-T includes patients who  present with clinical and morphologic 
features consistent with MDS and thrombocytosis (platelet counts ≥450 x 
109/L).63 The morphology is characterized by MDS -RS features (no blasts 
in the peripheral blood, dysplastic erythroid proliferation, RS  ≥15% of 
erythroid precursors, and <5% blasts in marrow) with proliferation of large , 
atypical megakaryocytes similar to those seen in essential 
thrombocythemia or primary myelofibrosis. The frequency of spliceosome 
gene SF3B1 mutations in up to 60% of MDS -RS-T cases has resulted in 
the inclusion of MDS/MPN -RS-T (termed MDS/MPN -T-SF3B1  or 
MDS/MPN -RS-T, NOS in the ICC) as a full entity.64-67 SF3B1 mutations 
are associated with the presence of RS  and frequently have the JAK2 
V617F mutation or MPL  W515K/L mutation.63 In contrast to MDS -RS, 
SF3B1 mutations do not change the required percentage of RS for 
diagnostic classification. CALR mutations have also been reported.68 Case 
reports suggest efficacy of lenalidomide at alleviating the need for red 
blood cell (RBC) transfusions in patients with MDS/MPN -RS-T.68-70 HMAs 
and/or lenalidomide69; or luspatercept -aamt71 may be considered. In one 
study, out of 14 patients with MDS/MPN -RS-T randomized to receive 
luspatercept, 64.3% achieved RBC -TI of ≥8 weeks during weeks 1 to 24, 
compared to 22.2% out of 9 patients randomized to receive placebo ( P = 
.028).71 
MDS/MPN -U (termed MDS/MPN NOS in the ICC) is a rare diagnosis, 
making up < 5% of all myeloid disorders.72 This disorder is a myeloid 
neoplasm with mixed MDS/MPN features at onset, but does not meet the 
WHO criteria for any other MDS/MPN, MDS, or MPN.73 The diagnostic 
criteria include: clinical and morphologic features consistent with MDS and thrombocytosis (platelet counts ≥450 x 10
9/L), and WBC count ≥13 x 
109/L. The most frequently mutated genes associated with this subtype  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-7 include TET2, NRAS , RUNX1 , CBL, SETBP1 , and ASXL1 .51,53,73,74 There 
is no optimal treatment consensus for patients with MDS/MPN -U who are 
not eligible for allogeneic HCT.54 In a series of 85 patients with 
WHO -defined MDS/MPN -U, most of the patients received HMAs, which 
was associated with improved overall survival (OS) compared to other 
treatment approaches (16.4 vs. 11.5 months).54,72 These alternate non -
transplant approaches included interferon alpha, thalidomide, and 
lenalidomide.72 HMAs and/or allogeneic HCT may be considered.  
MDS/MPN with i(17q) is a provisional entity in the ICC and is characterized by  a WBC count ≥13 x 10
9/L and dysgranulopoiesis.9 
Frequent mutations include those in the SETBP1  and SRSF2  genes.75 
The recommended treatment approach is allogeneic HCT.  
JMML is a rare childhood cancer that presents in infants and young 
children. In the 2022 WHO update, it is now classified as an MPN. In the 
ICC, this is classified as a pediatric disorder and/or germline mutation- associated disorder. Clinical and hematologic criteria for the 
diagnosis of JMML include: peripheral blood monocyte count ≥ 1 x 10
9/L; 
blast percentage in the peripheral blood and bone marrow <20%; 
splenomegaly; and the absence of BCR::ABL1 rearrangement.73 Although 
no mutations are exclusive to this disease subtype, the most frequently 
mutated genes in JMML are PTPN11  (40% –50%), NRAS  (15% –20%), 
KRAS (10% –15%), CBL (15% –18%), and NF1 (10% –15%).76,77 
Secondary mutations in the SETBP1 and JAK3  genes were also 
reported.77 In some patients, these mutations may be present as germline 
variants where they are frequently associated with Noonan syndrome or 
other congenital syndromes (see Genes Frequently Somatically Mutated 
in MDS in the algorithm ). In patients who do not have genetic features of 
JMML, with at least two of the following must be present : hemoglobin F 
increased for age; myeloid or erythroid precursors on peripheral blood 
smear; granulocyte -macrophage colony -stimulating factor (GM -CSF) hypersensitivity in colony ass ay; and hyperphosphorylation of STAT5 .8,73 
Allogeneic HCT is the main treatment option for JMML.54,78 
In patients with blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN) skin 
lesions, approximately  10% to 20% of cases are associated or develop 
into other myeloid neoplasms, including CMML, MDS, or AML.79 
Therefore, an accurate pathologic diagnosis is important for patients to receive the best care. Tagraxofusp has been shown to be a potentially 
useful therapy for these patients.
80    
Hydroxyurea may be helpful in decreasing excessive leukocytosis or 
thrombocytosis  for the subtypes described above (except for BPDCN) .81 
For patients with MDS or MDS/MPN overlap syndromes, observation may 
be considered to document indolent course versus marked progression of severe cytopenia or increase in blasts.  
Indolent Myeloid Hematopoietic Disorders  
The spectrum of indolent myeloid hematopoietic disorders encompasses four groups: clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP); 
idiopathic cytopenia of undetermined significance (ICUS) ; lower -risk clonal 
cytopenia of undetermined significance (CCUS) ; and higher -risk CCUS . 
Based on cytopenia(s), dysplasia, clonality, and risk of transformation , 
patients can be classified within the spectrum (see Spectrum of Indolent Myeloid Hematopoietic Disorders  in the algorithm). These disorders can 
evolve into MDS or AML, al though the frequency of progression may differ 
among the four groups.  
CHIP and CCUS are defined by the presence of a clonal karyotypic 
abnormality (present in ≥2 metaphases) and/or a somatic mutation in a 
gene involved in hematopoiesis (present at >2% variant allele frequency). There is an absence of marrow dysplasia in these patients. CCUS differs 
from CHIP by having the presence of cytopenia. Although CHIP is generally benign and has a low likelihood of progression compared to PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-8 other pre -malignant conditions, there is a higher risk of subsequent 
hematologic disease compared to patients who do not have somatic 
mutations.82,83 Additionally, shorter survival in these patients compared 
with aged- matched controls has been demonstrated and may be attributed 
to non -hematologic causes.83 The most frequently mutated genes 
associated with CHIP include DNMT3A , TET2, ASXL1 , RUNX1 , JAK2 , 
PPM1D , TP53, and SF  genes.83-85 Patients with pathogenic mutations with 
>10% variant allelic frequency and ≥2 somatic mutations, spliceosome 
gene mutations, or mutations of RUNX1  or JAK2  have positive predictive 
values for myeloid neoplasms (ie, MDS, MPN, AML).86 Isolated mutations 
of DNMT3A , TET2 , and ASXL1 have less predictive value.86 The risk for 
myeloid neoplasm is increased 3- , 37-, and 348 -fold in low -risk, 
intermediate- risk, and high- risk CHIP/CCUS, respectively, compared to 
unmutated controls.87 ICUS has no known cause, lack somatic mutations 
or clonal karyotypic abnormalities. There is significant heterogeneity within 
ICUS, with some patients experiencing spontaneous resolution of disease 
and others developing a myeloid neoplasm.88 Data are limited regarding 
natural history and disease progression for these two disorders.   
An online calculator should be considered to obtain a clonal 
hematopoiesis risk score (CHRS) with a corresponding risk category (low, 
intermediate, or high), as these risk groups significantly differ in the 10 -
year probabilities of developing myeloid neoplasm s, as well as OS.87 The 
CHRS may have a role in clinical decision- making but requires 
confirmatory evidence to help assess its efficacy. A recent study has 
introduced an alternative risk model designed to aid in the prediction of 
clonal hematopoiesis to myeloid neoplasm.89 This model  calculates the 
year-to-year probabilities for  the development of  each type of myeloid 
neoplasm over a 15 -year period.   
Two studies have focused on the role of mutational analysis in indolent malignant disease. In a prospective analysis of 144 patients, Kwok and colleagues
90 used a 22- gene panel to determine the frequency of MDS -
associated mutations. Among these patients, 17% were categorized as 
MDS, 15% as ICUS with mild dysplasia, and 69% as ICUS without 
dysplasia. Further analysis showed that 35% of patients with ICUS had a 
somatic mutation or chromosomal abnormality similar to MDS; these 
patients were characterized as CCUS. The similar mutational features 
may have a role in the diagnostic value of these disorders.90 
Cargo et al88 evaluated mutational features associated with ICUS in 
patients with disease that developed into progressive dysplasia or AML. 
Although this study was not designed to evaluate the diagnostic role of 
mutations, detection of mutational features predicted progression to high-
risk disease and OS. The study proposes that patients who are defined as 
poor-risk may benefit from early intervention.  
NCCN recommends that following the initial evaluation, regular monitoring 
of blood counts in patients with these indolent myeloid hematopoietic 
disorders occur at least every 3 to 6 months. More frequent monitoring 
may be recommended based on clinical expertise.  Observation is the 
recommended clinical approach. Monitoring is recommended for CHIP (based on clinical change), ICUS (yearly), lower -risk CCUS (yearly), and 
high- risk CCUS ( CBC 2 to 4 times  yearly ). Enrollment in a clinical trial 
should be consider ed for high- risk CCUS.   
Childhood MDS  
Several differences exist between adult and childhood myelodysplasia. MDS and myelodysplasia are quite rare in children, occurring in 1 to 4 
cases per million per year with a median age of 6.8 years.
91-93 MDS in 
children is strongly associated with congenital disorders.94 Genetic 
syndromes are evident in 50% of cases, including Down syndrome,95-97 
trisomy 8 syndrome,98 Fanconi anemia,99,100 congenital neutropenia 
(Kostmann syndrome),101,102 Diamond- Blackfan anemia,103 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-9 Shwachman- Diamond syndrome,104 dyskeratosis congenita (DC),105 
neurofibromatosis type 1,106 Bloom syndrome,107,108 Noonan syndrome,109 
and Dubowitz syndrome.110 Prior exposure to cytotoxic therapy (eg, 
alkylating agents, epipodophyllotoxins, topoisomerase II inhibitors)111- 114 or 
radiation115,116 increases the risk for MDS.  
The 2022 WHO classification identifies 2  childhood myelodysplastic 
neoplasms : Childhood MDS with low blasts (previously termed refractory 
cytopenia of childhood [RCC] ) and childhood MDS with increased blasts .8 
RCC is the most common subtype of MDS found in children, accounting 
for approximately 50% of cases.93 Abnormal karyotypes are found in 30% 
to 50% of children with MDS,117 most common are numerical anomalies 
with <10% showing structural abnormalities. Monosomy 7 is the most 
common cytogenetic abnormality, occurring in 30% of cases,118,119 
followed by trisomy 8120,121 and trisomy 21.122 The del(5q) abnormality is 
rarely seen in children.123 Clinically, isolated RAs  are uncommon in 
children. Thrombocytopenia and/or neutropenia, often accompanied by 
hypocellular marrow, is a common presentation. Fetal hemoglobin levels 
are frequently elevated.  
Differential diagnoses include aplastic anemia (AA) and AML. Compared to AA, children with MDS have a significantly elevated mean corpuscular 
volume; clonal hematopoiesis is confirmatory. Higher expression of p53, 
lower expression of survivin, or the presence of MDS -related cytogenetic 
abnormalities can also help differentiate MDS from AA.
124 Compared with 
AML, low WBC count, multi -lineage dysplasia, and clonal hematopoiesis 
with numerical, rather than structural, cytogenetic abnormalities suggest 
MDS. A bone marrow blast count of < 20% also suggests MDS, but 
biologic  features are more important than a strict blast cutoff value. 
Monosomy 7 strongly suggests MDS. When patients present with AML, 
the marrow frequently shows dysplastic features, but this does not 
necessarily indicate that the AML arose after MDS. Indeed, c riteria for the diagnosis of MDS in a patient who presents with AML are stringent.125 
Dysplasia in bone marrow cells may also be due to other etiologies including infection (eg, Parvo virus,
126,127 herpes viruses,128 HIV), 
deficiencies of B 12 and copper,129 drug therapy, and chronic disease.130 
Congenital dyserythropoietic anemia, congenital sideroblastic anemia, and 
Pearson syndrome should also be excluded.  
Children with Down syndrome have an increased risk of developing leukemia (50 -fold greater risk if younger than 5 years), and are usually 
categorized as having acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL, 
M7).
95,97,131,132 This commonly has a prodromal phase of cytopenia(s) 
similar to MDS and may be considered a spectrum of the same disease. 
Prognosis of patients with Down syndrome and AMKL is quite good  with 
an 80% cure rate when treated with intensive chemotherapy. HCT is not 
indicated in first complete remission for these children. Newborns with 
Down syndrome can develop abnormal myelopoiesis with leukocytosis, 
circulating blasts, anemia, and thrombocy topenia, but this resolves 
spontaneously within weeks to months. Approx imately 20% of children 
with Down syndrome, who have transient abnormal myelopoiesis, will 
subsequently develop AMKL.96 
There is a paucity of clinical trials due to the rarity and heterogeneity of 
MDS in children. The primary goal of treatment is generally a cure rather 
than palliation. HCT is the only curative option in childhood MDS with 
3-year disease- free survival rates of approximately 50%.133- 135 
Myeloablative therapy with busulfan, cyclophosphamide, and melphalan, 
followed by either matched family or matched unrelated donor allogeneic 
HCT is the treatment of choice for children with MDS. Other treatments 
such as chemotherapy, growth factors, and immunosuppressive therapy 
(IST) have a limited role. Prognosis for untreated MDS depends on the 
rate of progression to AML. The stage of the disease at the time of HCT 
strongly predicts outcome.119 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-10 Patients with RCC have a median time to progression to advanced MDS 
of 1.7 years,119 but the time to progression is highly variable, depending on 
the underlying cause of MDS and standard prognostic factors.136 Patients 
with JMML have a variable prognosis; some younger patients with 
favorable genetics and clinical features have resolution of JMML without 
treatment, while others progress rapidly despite allogeneic HCT.137 
Children diagnosed before age 2 years have the best prognosis. Poor 
prognostic features include high hemoglobin F, older age, and 
thrombocytopenia.  
Pediatric AML or MDS with monosomy 7 has a poor prognosis with 
conventional therapies. A review of 16 patients with AML and MDS with 
monosomy 7 treated by two transplant programs from 1992 to 2003 
(MDS, n  = 5; therapy -related MDS [t -MDS], n  = 3; AML, n = 5; 
therapy -related AML [t -AML], n  = 3) reported a 2 -year event -free survival 
of 69%.138 Four of the five deaths occurred in patients transplanted with 
active leukemia. Seven of eight patients with MDS were alive without 
evidence of disease ( six in first complete remission, one in second 
complete remission, and one death due to complications).138 
Although MDS can occur in both adult and pediatric populations, the treatment strategies and recommendations are not necessarily the same. 
The NCCN Guidelines for Myelodysplastic Syndromes focus on 
recommendations for the diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment of adult 
patients with MDS; therefore, the discussions that follow pertain to adult 
patients.  
Evaluation  
Several types of evaluations are needed to determine the clinical status of 
patients with MDS. Understanding clinical status is necessary for 
diagnostic and prognostic categorization and to determine treatment 
options.  Initial Evaluation  
Clinical history should include the timing, severity, and tempo of abnormal 
cytopenias; prior infections or bleeding episodes; and number of 
transfusions. Cytopenias are defined as values lower than standard 
laboratory hematologic levels, being aware of ag e, sex, ethnic, and 
altitude norms.12 Concomitant medications and comorbid conditions 
require careful assessment. Because MDS are relatively indolent 
disorders, blood count stability is used to distinguish MDS from evolving 
AML. Other possible causes of cytopenias require careful evaluation.  
In addition to establishing current blood and reticulocyte counts, clinicians 
need a peripheral blood smear evaluation to determine the degree of 
dysplasia and, thus,  potentially dysfunctional cells. Bone marrow 
aspiration with Prussian blue stain for iron and a biopsy are needed to evaluate the degree and relative proportions of hematopoietic cell 
maturation abnormalities, percentage of marrow blasts, marrow cellulari ty, 
presence or absence of RS (and presence of iron per se), and fibrosis. 
Cytogenetics fo r bone marrow samples (by standard karyotyping methods) 
should be obtained, because they are of major prognostic importance. If standard cytogenetics with 20 or more  metaphases cannot be obtained, 
chromosome microarray analysis ( CMA )/ chromosome genomic array 
testing (CGA T)
61 or MDS -related FISH panel should be performed.  If 
karyotype is normal, the CMA  should be considered. However, CMAs 
detect both somatic and germline or constitutional changes  (see table of 
Common Cytogenetic Abnormalities in MDS  in the algorithm ). 
Bone marrow biopsy staining for reticulin is recommended for evaluating 
the presence and degree of bone marrow fibrosis.139 Increased reticulin 
fibers in the marrow at diagnosis are seen in approximately 5% to 10% of MDS cases.
140- 143 MDS with fibrosis is  considered a distinct subtype of 
MDS in the 2022  WHO classification.8 These patients frequently present PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-11 with severe pancytopenia and decreased survival in these patients has 
been reported.140,141 
Bone marrow or peripheral blood cells should be assayed for somatic 
mutations in genes associated with MDS (see Genes Frequently 
Somatically Mutated in MDS  in the algorithm) as these gene mutations 
may be clinically useful in specific contexts. For example, mutations in 
splice factor genes are much more common in patients with MDS, MDS -
SF3B1 , and CMML compared to other myeloid neoplasms. Approximately 
40% of patients with MDS will carry a mutation in one of the three most 
frequently mutated splice factors: SF3B1 , SRSF2 , and U2AF1.144 A typical 
mutation in one of these genes indicates the presence of clonally derived 
hematopoiesis and may help determine diagnosis in the appropriate 
clinical context.   
Mutations of SF3B1  are associated with the presence of RS  and are highly 
prevalent in patients with MDS -RS or MDS -RS-T (>80%).65 Mutations of 
JAK2  are found in 50% of patients with MDS -RS-T, although it is much 
rarer in other subtypes. Mutations of SRSF2  are enriched in patients with 
CMML, although it is not unique to this subtype. Patients with JMML will 
often have mutations in one of the tyrosine kinase signaling genes such as 
PTPN11 , NF1, NRAS , KRAS , or CBL .77 In many cases, these mutations 
are congenital and part of a larger syndrome.  
Typical mutations in other genes (see Genes Frequently Somatically 
Mutated in MDS in the algorithm) can also establish the presence of clonal 
hematopoiesis, but they are less specific for disease subtype. Of note, 
several mutated genes associated with MDS (eg, TET2, DNMT3A , SF3B1 , 
EZH2 , NRAS , BRAF , TP53) can be mutated in other neoplasms, including 
lymphoid malignancies. Rare patients  can have dual diagnoses (eg, MDS 
and chronic lymphocytic leukemia), which can confound the interpretation of sequencing results. Therefore, the presence of mutations must be 
interpreted in an appropriate clinical context consistent with MDS. Acquired mutations of TET2  and DNMT3A  are frequent in MDS but have 
also been identified in people who are older  with clonal hematopoiesis and 
normal blood counts. Whether mutations of these or other genes are 
predictive of MDS in patients with cytopenias who do not meet 
morphologic diagnostic criteria for MDS is not known. Therefore, somatic 
mutations should not be used as presumptive evidence of MDS in the 
absence of other diagnostic features. Patients with cytopenias who lack 
bone marrow findings diagnostic of MDS can have somatic mutations 
indicative of clonal hematopoiesis, and as indicated above, those with 
pathogenic mutations with >10% variant allelic frequency and ≥2 somatic 
mutations, spliceosome gene mutations, or mutations of RUNX1  or JAK2  
have positive predictive values for myeloid neoplasms (ie, MDS, MPN, 
AML).
86 The mere presence of a mutation is not a substitute for the 
pathologic diagnosis of MDS (ie, requiring dysplasia) and should not be used as the sole indication for treatment. Mutations in some non -MDS 
genes may indicate the presence of neoplasms that can mimic MDS. These include CALR mutations associated with primary myelofibrosis, 
CSF3R  mutations associated with aCML and CNL, and STAT3  mutations 
associated with large granular lymphocyte (LGL) leukemia.  If MDS is read 
out by the evaluating pathologist, reflex testing including cytogenetics and molecular testing should be performed as a standard p ractice. A unified 
report that includes molecular -genetic results with pathological description 
is required for appropriate diagnosis and therapy selection. For discussion 
regarding the prognostic value of molecular abnormalities, see Molecular 
Abnormalities in MDS.  
Other useful recommended laboratory screening tests include serum 
erythropoietin (sE PO), vitamin B
12, serum or RBC folate levels, serum 
ferritin, iron, and total iron- binding capacity (TIBC). Serum ferritin levels 
may be nonspecific, particularly in inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis. In such cases, obtaining the serum iron levels and 
TIBC along w ith serum ferritin may be helpful. As hypothyroidism and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-12 other thyroid disorders can lead to anemia, patients should also be 
evaluated for levels of thyroid- stimulating hormone.145 HIV testing should 
also be performed, if clinically indicated.  
Elevated levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) are predictive of a 
decreased survival. LDH is a measure of the systemic inflammation that 
occurs as a result of tissue turnover or hemolysis. The IPSS and IPSS -R 
identified LDH as a prognostic feature and other studies have supported the association. In a retrospective study, LDH levels taken at diagnosis 
were stratified in patients with disease categorized as IPSS -R 
intermediate. Patients with LDH levels ≥320 U/L (n  = 8) had a significantly 
shorter overall OS  than patients with levels below 320 U/L (n = 28; 347 
days vs. 1339 days, respectively; P  = .03).
146 
There have been reports that copper deficiency can mimic many of the 
peripheral blood and marrow findings seen in MDS.147- 149 Copper 
deficiency is an etiology of anemia, neutropenia, and bone marrow 
dysplasia that may be under -recognized. There are rare cases of  patients 
with clinical presentation consistent with MDS who  may be deficient in 
copper and for whom copper supplementation may resolve hematologic 
abnormalities. Copper and ceruloplasmin level assessments should be 
considered as part of the initial diagnostic workup in patients suspected of 
having low -risk MDS, esp ecially those with gastrointestinal (GI) disorders 
and neuropathy.150 Clinical features associated with copper deficiency 
include vacuolation of myeloid and/or erythroid precursors,147- 149 prior GI 
surgery,147,148 a history of vitamin B 12 deficiency,148,151 severe malnutrition, 
and a history of zinc supplementation.  
Additional molecular and genetic screening for heritable hematologic 
malignancy predisposition is recommended in a subset of patients , 
particularly in patients < 50 years  of age . Diseases , syndromes , and 
mutations  that may potentially be associated  include GATA2 deficiency 
syndrome, Shwachman -Diamond syndrome, short telomere syndromes , DDX41  mutations (usually present at older ages), and others  (see Genetic  
Familial High -Risk Assessment:  Hereditary Myeloid Malignancy 
Predisposition Syndromes  and see  Gene Mutations Associated with 
Hereditary Myeloid Malignancies in the algorithm). Shortened telomere 
length has been associated with diseases of bone marrow failure, 
including inherited disorders such as dyskeratosis congenita, particularly 
in the presence of mutations in the DKC1 , TERT,  or TERC genes that 
encode for components of the  telomere complex.152,153 Telomere length 
can be measured by FISH assays using leukocyte (or leukocyte subset) 
samples.152,154 Other genetic lesions, such as those occurring in the 
RUNX1  or GATA2  gene, have been implicated in familial cases of MDS 
and other myeloid malignancies.  
Lesions within the RUNX1  gene (mutations, deletions, or translocations) 
have been identified as one cause of a relatively rare autosomal -dominant 
familial platelet disorder that predisposes these patients to myeloid 
malignancies.155,156 In affected families with the RUNX1  lesions, the 
incidence of MDS/AML is high, ranging from 20% to 60% in which the 
median age of onset is 33 years.157 This familial platelet disorder is 
characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia, and a tendency for mild-to-moderate bleeding generally presents from childhood; however, 
some affected individuals may not display these clinical characteristics.
157 
Different types of genetic lesions in RUNX1  account for the variable 
phenotypes associated with familial platelet disorder between different families. Cryptic genetic lesions in RUNX1  have been reported in some 
patients with Fanconi anemia and MDS/AML.
158 Identification of Fanconi 
anemia is clinically important, because it is associated with chromosomal 
fragility that results in variability of disease response to HMAs .  
The GATA2  gene codes for a transcription factor involved in gene 
regulation during the development and differentiation of hematopoietic 
cells and its expression was shown to correlate with severe dysplasia in PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-13 patients with primary MDS.159 Heritable mutations in GATA2  were 
identified in families with highly penetrant, early -onset MDS and/or AML.160 
The mutations showed an autosomal -dominant pattern of inheritance, and 
affected individuals with this familial form of MDS/AML had poor outcomes 
in the absence of allogeneic HCT.160 More importantly, family members 
may not be eligible as donors for allogeneic HCT.  
Additional Testing  
For HCT candidates, cytomegalovirus (CMV) status and full human 
leukocyte antigen ( HLA) typing (A, B, C, DR, and DQ) of the patient and 
potential donors are needed. Flow cytometry for assessing the 
percentage of blast cells in the bone marrow (as measured by the cell 
surface expression of CD34) may also be valuable in some clinical 
situations, including detection of LGL disease. It should be emphasized, 
however, that estimates of blast percentage by flow cytometry do not 
provide the same prognostic information as the blast per centage derived 
from morphologic evaluation. Accordingly, flow cyto metry data should not 
be used in lieu of the determination of morphologic blast percentage by 
an experienced hematopathologist.  Flow cytometry may be considered as 
a diagnostic aid for MDS and may be considered along with T CR 
polymerase chain reaction and STAT3  mutation testing to evaluate for 
LGL and paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) clone.  
The screening for PNH or STAT3 -mutant cytotoxic T -cell clones is 
potentially useful for determining which patients may be more responsive 
to IST, particularly young patients with normal cytogenetics and 
hypoplastic MDS161- 163 (see Prognostic Stratification ). PNH is a rare , 
acquired disorder of the blood arising from mutations in the PIGA  gene 
resulting in defective synthesis of the glycophosphatidylinositol (GPI) 
anchor. This, in turn, leads to a deficiency of proteins that are normally 
linked to the cell membrane of blood cells via a GPI anchor.164- 167 
Deficiency in GPI -anchored proteins such as those involved in complement inhibition (eg, CD55, CD59) leads to complement sensitivity 
of RBCs and subsequent hemolysis.164,165 Flow cytometry is the 
established method for detecting GPI -anchor –deficient cells for the 
diagnosis of PNH. Fluorescent aerolysin (FLAER), a protein that 
specifically binds to GPI anchors, has been shown to be a highly specific 
and reliable marker for det ecting GPI -anchor –deficient clones among 
granulocytes or monocytes.168 For evaluation of PNH clonogenicity, 
multiparameter flow cytometry analysis of granulocytes and monocytes 
using FLAER, and at least one GPI -anchored protein, should be 
considered .164,165,168 It should be emphasized that although evidence of a 
minor PNH clone may be present in approximately  20% of patients with 
MDS, there is usually no evidence of PNH -related hemolysis in these 
patients.  
Cases of patients with myelodysplastic features and clonal expansion of 
LGLs have been reported.169- 172 In one of these studies, three out of nine 
patients responded to IST as indicated by improved blood counts.169 
Although patients with both MDS and LGL did not respond as well as 
patients with LGL (33% vs. 66%; P = .01), the presence of the T- cell 
clone may reflect a target for IST. A second study reported improved 
outcomes in 61 patients with MDS with LGL clonogenicity receiving 
anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG).170 Moreover, the MDS -SLD refractory 
anemia ( RA) subtype was determined as a favorable predictor of 
response compared to patients with non-MDS -SLD RA (odds ratio [OR], 
0.15; 95% CI, 0.04– 0.59; P = .005).170 
In addition to basic flow cytometric evaluation at presentation for 
characterization of blasts and evaluation of lymphoid populations, 
expanded flow cytometry may be a useful adjunct for diagnosis of MDS in 
difficult cases. In expert hands (both in terms of technical sophistication 
and interpretation), flow cytometry may demonstrate abnormal differentiation patterns or aberrant antigen expression in myeloid or PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-14 progenitor cells, which may help confirm a diagnosis of MDS, exclude 
differential diagnostic possibilities, and, in some patients, provide 
prognostic information.173- 177 Flow analysis should use appropriate 
antibody combinations with four fluorescence channel instrumentation.173-
177 Multiple aberrancies should be present for the diagnosis of MDS, as 
single aberrancies are not infrequent in normal populations.  For follow -up 
studies, antibody combinations may be tailored to detect specific 
abnormalities implicated in the initial evaluation.  While aberrancies have 
also been described in erythroid cells, most flow cytometry laboratories do not provide erythroid analysis.   
The European LeukemiaNET developed a flow cytometric score based on the reproducible parameters of CD34 and CD45 markers to aid in the 
diagnosis of MDS.
178 The scoring system was developed using multicenter 
retrospective data from patients with low -grade MDS (defined as <5% 
marrow blasts; n = 417) and patients with non- clonal cytopenias as 
controls (n  = 380). This patient population was selected because low -
grade MDS often lack specific diagnostic markers (eg, RS , clonal 
cytogenetic abnormalities), which makes it difficult to diagnose based on 
morphology alone. Bone marrow samples from patients with MDS 
compared with samples from patients with non- clonal cyto penias showed 
different flow cytometric patterns, including: 1) increased CD34+ myeloblast -related cluster size (defined by a wider distribution of CD45 
expression and greater side scatter [SSC] characteristics); 2) decreased CD34+ B -progenitor cluster siz e (defined by a relatively low CD45 
expression and low SSC); 3) aberrant myeloblast CD45 expression (based on the lymphocyte to myeloblast CD45 ratio); and 4) a decreased 
granulocyte SSC value (based on the granulocyte to lymphocyte SSC 
ratio).
178 These four parameters were included in a logistic regression 
model, and a weighted score (derived from regression coefficients) was assigned to each parameter. The sum of the scores provided the overall 
flow cytometric score for each sample, with a score of 2 or higher defined as the threshold for MDS diagnosis.
178 Using this flow cytometric score in 
the learning cohort, a correct diagnosis of MDS was made with 70% 
sensitivity and 93% specificity. Among patients  with MDS without specific 
markers of dysplasia, 65% were correctly identified. The positive predictive and negative predictive values were 92% and 74%, respectively. These 
outcomes were confirmed in the validation cohort, which showed 69% 
sensitivity and 92% specificity.
178 This flow cytometric scoring system 
demonstrated a high diagnostic power in differentiating low -grade MDS 
from non -clonal cytopenias, and may be particularly useful in establishing 
a diagnosis in situations where traditional diagnostic methods are indeter minate. Further independent validation studies are warranted to 
determine the utility of this method.  
Because of the associated expense, the requirement for both technical 
and interpretational expertise, and the need for greater consensus on 
specific antibody combinations and procedures that are most informative 
and cost -effective, flow cytometric assays s hould be performed by 
experienced laboratories and used in general practice only when 
diagnosis is uncertain with traditional approaches (eg, blood counts, 
morphology, cytogenetics, increased blasts). Flow cytometry studies may 
also be used to assess the possibility of LGL disease, as indicated by 
LGLs present in the peripheral blood.
179 In addition, STAT3  mutations are 
commonly found in T -LGL disease.180 
Determination of platelet -derived growth factor receptor beta ( PDGFRβ) 
gene rearrangements at 5q32  may be helpful to evaluat e in patients with 
CMML.181 CMML with eosinophilia as well as other myeloid and lymphoid 
malignancies with rearrangement of PDGFR β (locus 5q32) have 
constitutive activation of the tyrosine kinase receptor. Such diseases are 
considered unique entities by WHO and identification of these 
rearrangements is critical because of their exquisite sensitivity to imatinib.
46,182- 184 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-15 Evaluation of Related Anemia  
Major morbidities of MDS include symptomatic anemia and associated 
fatigue. Progress has been made in the management of MDS -related 
anemia; however, the health care provider must also identify and treat any 
coexisting causes of anemia. Standard assessments shoul d be performed 
to look for other causes of anemia, such as GI bleeding, hemolysis, renal disease, and nutritional deficiency. If needed, iron, folate, or vitamin B
12 
studies should be obtained and the cause of depletion corrected, if 
possible. After excluding or providing proper treatment for these causes of 
anemia, further consideration for treating MDS -related anemia should be 
undertaken. Anemia related to MDS commonly presents as a hypoproductive macrocytic anemia, often associated with suboptimal 
elevat ion of sE PO levels.
4,185 Bone marrow aspiration with iron stain, 
biopsy, and cytogenetics should be used to determine WHO subtype, iron status, and the level of RS .  
Prognostic Stratification  
Although the diagnostic criteria allow for categorization of patients with 
MDS, the highly variable clinical outcomes within these subgroups indicate 
prognostic limitations. The morphologic features contributing to this 
variability include the wide range of marrow blast percentages for patients 
with MDS  and CMML (1% –19%); marrow cytogenetics; and the degree 
and number of morbidity -associated cytopenias. These well -perceived 
problems for categorizing patients with MDS have led to the development 
of additional risk -based stratification systems.186,187 
Prognostic Scoring Systems  
IPSS  
The IPSS for primary MDS emerged from deliberations of the International MDS Risk Analysis Workshop (IMRAW).
16 Compared with previous 
classification systems, the risk- based IPSS markedly improved prognostic stratification of MDS cases. The IPSS was developed based on the 
combined cytogenetic, morphologic, and clinical data from a relatively 
large group of MDS cases included in previously reported prognostic 
studies.16,186  FAB morphologic criteria were used to establish the diagnosis 
of MDS. In addition, relative stability of peripheral blood counts for 4 to 6 weeks was needed to exclude other possible etiologies for the cytopenias, 
such as drugs, other diseases, or incipient evolution to AML. CMML was 
subdivided into proliferative and non -proliferative subtypes. Patients with 
proliferative -type CMML (those with WBC counts ˃12,000/mcL) were 
excluded from this analysis.
16 Patients with non- proliferative CMML (with 
WBC counts of ≤12,000/mcL plus other features of MDS) were included.188 
Significant independent variables for determining survival and AML 
evolution outcomes were marrow blast percentage, number of cytopenias, 
and cytogenetic subgroup (good, intermediate, and poor). Patients with 
the chromosome anomalies t(8;21) or inv(16) wer e considered to have 
AML and not MDS, regardless of the blast count. Age was also a critical variable for survival, although not for AML evolution. The percentage of 
marrow blasts was divded into four categories: 1) <5%; 2) 5% to 10%; 3) 
11% to 20%; and 4)  21% to 30%.  
Cytopenias were defined for the IPSS as a hemoglobin level < 10 g/dL, an 
absolute neutrophil count below 1800 cells/mcL, and a platelet count below 100,000 cells/mcL. Patients with normal marrow karyotypes, del(5q) 
alone, del(20q) alone, and - Y alone had relatively good prognoses (70%), 
whereas patients with complex  abnormalities (three or more chromosome 
anomalies) or chromosome 7 anomalies had relatively poor prognoses 
(16%). The remaining patients were classified as having intermediate 
outcome (14%). Of t he patients in the “complex” category, the vast 
majority had chromosome 5 or 7 abnormalities in addition to other 
anomalies.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-16 To develop the IPSS for MDS, relative risk scores for each significant 
variable (marrow blast percentage, cytogenetic subgroup, and number of 
cytopenias) were generated.16 By combining the risk scores for the three 
major variables, patients were stratified into four distinctive risk groups in terms of both survival and AML evolution: low, intermediate (int) -1, int -2, 
and high. When either cytopenias or cytogenetic subtypes w ere omitted 
from the classification, discrimination among the four subgroups was much 
less precise. Both for survival and AML evolution, the IPSS showed 
statistically greater prognostic discriminating power than earlier 
classification methods.
16 
IPSS- R 
The IPSS -R defines five risk groups (very low, low, intermediate, high, and 
very high) versus the four groups in the initial IPSS.189 The IPSS -R, which 
was derived from an analysis of a large dataset from multiple international 
institutions, refined the original IPSS by incorporating the following into the 
prognostic model: more detailed cytogenetic subgroups, separate 
subgroups within the “marrow blasts <5%” group, and a depth of 
cytopenias measurement defined with cutoffs for hemoglobin levels, 
platelet counts, and neutrophil counts. In the IPSS -R, the cytogenetic 
subgroups comprise five risk groups (vs. three in the original IPSS) bas ed 
on a cytogenetic scoring system for MDS published in 2012.17 Other 
parameters including age, performance status, serum ferritin, LDH, and beta- 2 microglobulin provided additional prognostic information for survival 
outcomes, but not for AML evolution; age was more prognostic among 
lower -risk groups compared with the higher -risk groups.
189 The predictive 
value of the IPSS -R was validated in a number of independent studies 
based on registry data, including studies that evaluated outcomes for 
patients treated with HMAs .190- 195 
In a multiregional study of MDS patient registry data from Italy (N  = 646), 
significant differences in outcomes among the IPSS -R risk categories were found for OS, AML evolution, and progression- free survival (PFS) 
(later defined as leukemic evolution or death from any cause).196 Notably, 
the predictive power (based on Harrell’s C statistics) of the IPSS -R was 
found to be greater than the IPSS, WPSS, and refined WPSS for the three 
outcome measures mentioned above. The investigators acknowledged the 
limitation of a short follow -up (median, 17 months) in the study cohort.196 
In a retrospective analysis of data from lower -risk MDS (IPSS low or int -1) 
patients in a large multicenter registry (N  = 2373 ) in Spain, the IPSS -R 
could identify three risk categories (very low, low, intermediate) within the 
IPSS low -risk group with none of the patients categorized as IPSS -R high 
or very high.194 Within the IPSS int -1–risk group, the IPSS -R further 
stratified patients into four risk categories (very low, low, intermediate, 
high) with only one patient categorized as very high risk. Within the IPSS 
low-risk group, median survival based on the IPSS -R risk categories was 
118.8 months for very low, 65.9 months for low, and 58.9 months for intermediate. Within the IPSS int -1 risk group, median surviv al based on 
the IPSS- R risk categories was 113.7 months for very low, 61 .3 months for 
low, 30. 4 months for intermediate, and 21.2 months for high risk. This 
study also applied the refined WP SS to further stratify the IPSS low and 
int-1 risk groups, and identified  a group of patients (refined WPSS high-
risk group) within the IPSS int -1 group who had poorer prognosis. 
However, the IPSS -R identified a larger proportion of patients with poor -
risk IPSS int -1 MDS than the refined WPSS (47% vs. 17%).  
In a retrospective database analysis of patients with MDS from a single 
institution (N  = 1088), median OS according to IPSS -R risk categories was 
90 months for very -low-, 54 months for low -, 34 months for intermediate -, 
21 months for high- , and 13 months for very -high- risk groups ( P < .005).
193 
The median follow -up in this study was 70 months. IPSS -R was also 
predictive of survival outcomes among the patients who received therapy 
with HMAs  (n = 618). Compared to patients not receiving AzaC, a PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-17 significant survival benefit with AzaC was shown only for the groups of 
patients with very -high- risk (median survival, 18 vs. 25 months, 
respectively; P < .028) and high- risk IPSS- R (median survival, 15 vs. 9 
months, respectively; P = .005). In addition, significantly longer OS with 
allogeneic HCT was only observed for patients at high (median survival, 40 vs. 19 months without HCT; P  < .005) and very high (median survival, 
31 vs. 12 months without HCT; P  < .005) risk.
193 The IPSS -R may 
therefore provide a tool for therapeutic decision- making.  
One study applied the IPSS -R to a series of patients with t-MDS and 
oligoblastic t -AML (ot -AML).197 Although some IPSS -R cutpoints were 
suboptimal for patients  with t-MDS/ot -AML, the overall IPSS -R scores 
separated patients with t-MDS/ot -AML into five risk groups, with each 
category showing statistical differences in OS as well as AML progression 
probability in t -MDS. These findings indicated that the major IPSS -R 
variables (bone marrow blast count, cytopenias, and cytogenetic dat a) 
remained powerful predictors in the therapy -related setting. However, 
compared to de novo MDS/oligoblastic AML, the median OS for each 
IPSS- R risk group of patients was shorter in t -MDS/ot -AML, particularly in 
the very -low- and low -risk groups. These di fferences likely reflect a 
number of factors, including different biology and clinical approaches (eg, 
treatment, primary disease, and its therapies) between t -MDS/ot -AML and 
de novo disease. Data from the MDS Clinical Research Consortium 
similarly demonstrated the improved prognostic value of the IPSS -R in 370 
patients with t -MDS compared to the IPSS, the global MD Anderson risk 
model, or the t -MDS MD Anderson model .198 Further studies are 
warranted to better evaluate the impact of specific therapies and more 
refined variables and their cut points  for analysis of this heterogeneous 
group of patients.  
Other studies have confirmed the value of the IPSS -R in treated as well 
as untreated patients.195,199- 201 Since more accurate risk stratification by the IPSS -R compared to the IPSS and WPSS has been demonstrated,199 
the IPSS -R categorization is preferred, although other systems have 
good value. It is understood that some ongoing studies are using the IPSS or WPSS. Thus, a transition period is expected before more 
uniform prognostic risk stratification is accepted by the field.  An analysis 
of patients in the International Working Group (IWG) for the Prognosis of MDS database, which generated the IPSS -R, indicated that optimal 
prognostic separation of lower versus higher -risk MDS  was obtained by a 
dichotomization based on 3.5 scoring points of the IPSS -R raw score (ie, 
≤3.5 vs. >3.5).
202  
WPSS  
Data have indicated a benefit to the addition of other clinical variables to 
the IPSS to improve the accuracy of prognosis. The WHO 
classification -based prognostic scoring system (WPSS) incorporates the 
WHO morphologic categories, the IPSS cytogenetic categories, and the 
degree of RBC transfusion dependence.203 This system demonstrated that 
the requirement  for RBC transfusions is a negative prognostic factor for 
patients in the lower -risk MDS categories. In addition, depth of anemia per 
se has additive and negative prognostic importance for the intermediate 
IPSS categories.204 As compared with the four groups defined by the 
IPSS, the WPSS classifies patients into five risk groups differing in both survival and risk of AML. The five risk groups are: very low, low, 
intermediate, high, and very high. Following the initial report by Malcovati 
et al,
203 there have been confirmatory studies demonstrating the 
usefulness of the WPSS.205-207 The initial WPSS has been refined to 
address the notion that the requirement for RBC transfusion may be 
somewhat subjective. In the refined WPSS, the measure of the degree of 
anemia by transfusion dependency is replaced by the presence (or 
absence) of sev ere anemia, defined as hemoglobin levels < 9 g/dL for 
males and < 8 g/dL for females.208 This approach allows for an objective 
assessment of anemia, while maintaining the prognostic implications of PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-18 the five risk categories defined in the original WPSS (as mentioned 
above).208  
IPSS- M 
The international prognostic scoring system molecular (IPSS -M) is a 
prognostic model that takes into account blood counts, marrow blasts, IPSS- R cytogenetic  risk categories, 16 main effect genes, and 15 residual 
genes and provides time estimates for OS, LFS, and AML transformation.
209 Data from 2957 patients with MDS, including those with 
secondary or therapy -related MDS and MDS/MPN overlap syndromes, 
were used to identify six risk categories (very low, low, moderate low, 
moderate high, high, very high). The median OS was 10.6 years for the 
very low-risk category, 6.0 for low risk, 4.6 for moderate low  risk, 2.8 years 
for moderate high risk , 1.7 for high risk, and 1.0 for very high risk . The 
median LFS was 9.7 ( very low risk ), 5.9 (low risk), 4.5 ( moderate low  risk), 
2.3 (moderate high risk ), 1.5 (high risk), and 0.76 years ( very high risk) 
respectively. The model was validated in a cohort of 754 Japanese 
patients. The Panel notes that the IPSS -M may have a role in improving 
clinical decision -making but requires confirmatory evidence to help assess 
its efficacy.  
LR-PSS 
The Lower -Risk Prognostic Scoring System (LR -PSS) is a prognostic 
model used in the evaluation of MDS, and was designed to help identify patients with lower -risk disease (IPSS low or int -1) who may have a poor 
prognosis.
210 The prognostic model was developed using clinical and 
laboratory data from patients with IPSS low - (n = 250) and int -1– (n = 606) 
risk MDS. Factors associated with decreased survival were identified and 
a prognostic model was constructed based on the results of multivariate 
Cox regression analysis. The final model included the following factors 
that were independent predictors for survival outcomes: unfavorable 
cytogenetics, older age ( ≥60 years), decreased hemoglobin (<10 g/dL), decreased platelet count ( <200 x 109/L), and higher percentage of bone 
marrow blasts (≥4%). Importantly, the cytogenetic categories in this 
system were derived from the previously defined IPSS categories rather 
than from the more refined IPSS -R. Each of these factors was given a 
weighted score, and the sum of the scores (range, 0– 7 points) was used 
to generate three risk categories: a score of 0 to 2 points was assigned to 
category 1, a score of 3 or 4 was assigned to category 2, and a score of 5 
to 7 was assigned to category 3. Usi ng this scoring system, median 
survival was 80.3 months for category 1, 26.6 months for category 2, and 14.2 months for category 3; the 4- year survival rates were 65%, 33%, and 
7%, respectively. The scoring system allowed for further stratification into these three risk categories for both the IPSS low -risk and IPSS int -1–risk 
subgroups. The LR -PSS may be useful in identifying patients with 
lower -risk disease who have poorer prognosis and require earlier 
treatment.  
The prognostic value of the LR -PSS has been validated in several 
independent studies.
66,194,211- 213 In a retrospective analysis of data from  
patients  with lower -risk MDS  (IPSS low or int -1) in the multicenter Spanish 
registry (N  = 2373), the LR -PSS was able to further stratify patients with  
lower -risk disease  into three  risk categories.194 Within the IPSS low -risk 
group, median survival was 130.3 months for category 1 (low risk), 69.7 
months for category 2 (intermediate risk), and 58.4 months for category 3 
(high risk) using the LR -PSS– risk categories ( P < .001); the corresponding 
median survival values within the IPSS int -1–risk group using the LR -PSS 
risk categories were 115.2 months, 51.3 months, and 24.1 months, 
respectively ( P < .001). An important proportion of patients (30%) within 
the IPSS int -1–risk group were identified as having a poorer prognosis as 
indicated by their inclusion in the high- risk group (24.1 months).  
Data from a cohort of patients with lower -risk MDS from two centers 
(N = 664) demonstrated a median survival according to the LR -PSS risk PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-19 categories of 91.4 months for category 1, 35.6 months for category 2, and 
22 months for category 3.213 Using data from the same cohort of patients, 
median survival according to the IPSS -R–risk groups was 91.4 months for 
IPSS- R very good, 35.9 months for good, and 27.8 months for the 
combined intermediate- , high- , and very -high– risk groups. Both of these 
prognostic scoring systems were significantly predictive of survival 
outcomes. The predictive powers (based on Harrell’s C statistics) of the 
LR-PSS and IPSS -R were 0.64 and 0.63, respectively.  
Molecular Abnormalities in MDS 
Several gene mutations have been identified among patients with MDS 
that may, in part, contribute to the clinical heterogeneity of the disease 
course, and thereby influence the prognosis of patients. Such gene 
mutations will be present in the majority of newly diagnosed patients, 
including most patients with normal cytogenetics. Several studies 
examining large numbers of MDS tumor samples have identified more 
than 40 recurrently mutated genes with > 80% of patients harboring at 
least one mutation.66,214- 216 The most frequently mutated genes were 
TET2, SF3B1 , ASXL1 , DNMT3A , SRSF2 , RUNX1 , TP53, U2AF1, EZH2 , 
ZRSR2 , STAG2 , CBL, NRAS , JAK2 , SETBP1 , IDH1, IDH2, and ETV6 , 
although no single mutated gene was found in more than one  third of 
patients. Several of these gene mutations are associated with adverse 
clinical features such as complex karyotypes ( TP53), excess bone marrow 
blast proportion ( RUNX1 , NRAS , and TP53), and severe 
thrombocytopenia ( RUNX1 , NRAS , and  TP53).  See the IPSS- M section 
above and Prognostic Scoring Systems in the algorithm for a discussion of 
mutational changes in MDS as noted in the IPSS -M.209 
Despite associations with clinical features considered by prognostic 
scoring systems, mutations in several genes hold independent prognostic 
value. Mutations of TP53 , EZH2 , ETV6 , RUNX1 , and ASXL1  have been 
shown to predict decreased OS in multivariable models adjusted for IPSS or IPSS- R risk groups in several studies of distinct cohorts.214,216 Within 
IPSS risk groups, a mutation in one or more of these genes identifies 
patients whose survival risk resembles that of patients in the next highest 
IPSS risk group (eg, the survival curve for patients with int -1–risk disease 
with an adverse gene mutation was similar to that of patients assigned to the int -2–risk group by the IPSS).
214 When applied to patients stratified by 
the IPSS- R, the presence of a mutation in one or more of these five genes 
was associated with shorter OS for patients in the low - and intermediate-
risk groups.216 Thus, the combined analysis of these gene mutations and 
the IPSS or IPSS- R may improve upon the risk stratification provided by 
these prognostic models alone. Mutations of ASXL1  have also been 
shown to carry independent adverse prognostic significance in 
CMML.217,218 Other mutated genes have been associated with decreased 
OS, including DNMT3A , U2AF1, SRSF2 , CBL, PRPF8 , SETBP1 , and 
KRAS.214,216,219- 223 Only mutations of SF3B1  have been associated with a 
more favorable prognosis even after adjustment for the IPSS -R in several, 
but not all studies.216,224,225  
TET2 mutations have been shown to impact the response to HMAs .226,227 
Patients with mutated TET2 had an 82% response rate to AzaC compared 
to 45% of patients with wild- type TET2 (P = .007). Response duration and 
OS were not statistically different.226 Another study identified 39 genes that 
were mutated in 213 patients with MDS treated with AzaC or decitabine.227 
A higher response to HMAs  in patients with the TET2  mutation, albeit to a 
lesser degree, was seen (response rate, 55% vs. 44%; P  = .14). This 
improved response was more pronounced when patients with ASXL1  
mutations and those with only low abundance TET2 mutations were 
excluded (OR, 3.65; P  = .009). Mutations in TP53  and PTPN11  correlated 
with shorter OS but did not affect drug response. However, the predictive 
capabilities of these mutations are modest. The status of these molecular 
markers in patients should not preclude the use of HMAs  nor be used to 
influence the  selection of HMAs.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-20 Mutations of TP53  are strongly associated with complex and monosomal 
karyotypes. However, approximately 50% of patients with a complex 
karyotype have no detectable TP53 abnormality and have an OS that is 
comparable to that of patients with non -complex karyotypes. Therefore, 
TP53 mutation status may be useful for refining the prognosis of these 
patients typically considered to have higher -risk disease.214 Patients with 
del(5q), either as an isolated abnormality or often as part of a complex 
karyotype, have a higher rate of concomitant TP53  mutations.228,229 These 
mutations are associated with diminished response or relapse after 
treatment with lenalidomide.230,231 In these cases, TP53 mutations may be 
secondary events and are often present in small subclones that can 
expand during treatment. More sensitive techniques may be required to 
identify the presence of subclonal, low -abundance TP53 mutations prior to 
treatment.  
Mutations identified in peripheral blood samples can accurately reflect 
mutations detected in the bone marrow of patients with MDS when more 
sensitive sequencing techniques are used to detect them.232 
Comorbidity Indices  
Patients with MDS predominantly comprise an older  adult population, 
posing potential challenges in terms of treatment tolerability and outcomes 
due to the presence of comorbid conditions. Approximately  50% of 
patients with newly diagnosed MDS present with one or more comorbidities, with cardiac disease and diabetes among the most 
frequently observed conditions.
233- 237 Assessment of the presence and 
degree of comorbidities using tools such as the Charlson Comorbidity 
Index (CCI) or the Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation- Specific 
Comorbidity Index (HCT- CI) has demonstrated the significant prognostic 
influence of comorbidities on the survival outcome of patients with 
MDS.233,235- 237 Some studies have shown that comorbidity (as measured 
by HCT -CI or Adult Comorbidity Evaluation- 27 [ACE -27]) was a significant prognostic factor for survival, independent of IPSS.234,237 In these studies, 
comorbidity indices provided additional prognostic information for survival 
outcomes in patients with MDS categorized as IPSS intermediate or high 
risk, but not for patients considered to have low -risk disease.  
Conversely, in another study, comorbidity (as measured by HCT- CI or 
CCI) was a significant predictor of OS and event -free survival in patients 
within the low -risk or int -1–risk groups, but not in the int -2–risk or high- risk 
groups.235 Comorbidity has also been shown to provide additional risk 
stratification among WPSS risk categories (for very low -, low- , and 
intermediate- risk groups but not for high-  or very -high- risk groups), 
prompting the development of a new MDS -specific comorbidit ies index 
that can be used in conjunction with WPSS for the assessment of prognosis.
238 Improved risk stratification has also been demonstrated with 
the incorporation of the Myelodysplastic Syndromes Comorbidity Index 
with the IPSS -R.201 At this time, the NCCN MDS Panel makes no specific 
recommendations with regard to the optimal comorbidity index to be used for patients with MDS. However, a thorough evaluation of the presence 
and extent of comorbid conditions remains an important aspect of 
treatment decision- making and management of MDS.  
Therapeutic Options  
The IPSS or IPSS- R risk categories are used in the initial planning of 
therapeutic options, because they provide a risk -based patient evaluation. 
In addition, factors such as patient age, performance status, and presence 
of comorbidities have a major influence on the patient's ability to tolerate 
certain intensive treatments  and play a major role in selecting the optimal 
management strategy . The WPSS provides dynamic estimation of 
prognosis at any time during the course of MDS.  
If the patient was only recently evaluated, determining the relative stability 
of the patient’s blood counts over several months is important to assess PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-21 whether the disease progresses, including incipient transformation to AML. 
In addition, this assessment permits determination of other possible 
etiologies for cytopenias. The patient’s preference for a specific approach 
is also important in deciding treatm ent options. The therapeutic options for 
MDS include supportive care, low -intensity therapy, high- intensity therapy 
including allogeneic HCT, targeted agents, and participation in a clinical 
trial. In evaluating results of therapeutic trials, the Panel found it important 
for studies to use the standardized IWG response criteria.239- 244 
For the MDS therapeutic algorithm, all patients should receive relevant supportive care. Following that, the MDS Panel has proposed stratifying 
patients with clinically significant cytopenia(s) into two major risk groups: 
1) patients with lower -risk MDS (ie, IPSS low, int -1; IPSS- R very low, low, 
intermediate; WPSS very low, low, intermediate); and 2) patients with higher -risk MDS (ie, IPSS int -2, high; IPSS -R intermediate, high, very 
high; WPSS high, very high). Patients with IPSS -R intermediate risk may 
be treated  as lower risk if their score is ≤3.5 versus  higher risk if their 
score is >3.5.
202 In addition, patients with intermediate- risk disease that 
does not respond to therapy for lower -risk disease would be eligible to 
receive therapy for higher -risk MDS.  
Based on IWG response criteria, the major therapeutic aim for patients in 
the lower -risk group would be hematologic improvement, whereas for 
those in the higher -risk group, alteration of the natural history of disease is 
viewed as paramount. Cytogenetic response and quality -of-life (QOL) 
parameters are  also important outcomes to assess. The algorithm outlines 
management of primary  MDS only. Most patients with t -MDS have poorer 
prognoses than those with primary MDS, including a substantial proportion with po or-risk cytogenetics. This disease is  generally managed as 
higher -risk disease.  Supportive Care  
Currently, the standard of care for MDS management includes  supportive 
care measures (see Supportive Care in the algorithm and the NCCN 
Guidelines for Supportive Care)  in addition to relevant specific care. This 
entails observation,  clinical monitoring, psychosocial support, and QOL 
assessment. Patients should receive support prior to transplant.   
Supportive care should include RBC transfusions for symptomatic anemia 
as needed (CMV -safe [CMV -negative or leukopheresed] ) or platelet 
transfusions for bleeding events; however, platelet transfusions are 
generally not  used routinely in patients with thrombocytopenia in the 
absence of bleeding. CMV -safe blood products are recommended 
whenever possible for recipients who are CMV -negative. Both the number 
of transfusions as well as the number of packed RBCs per transfusion 
should be kept to a minimum in patients who are classified as non- cardiac 
and in patients anticipated to be heavily transfused. The NCCN Guidelines 
Panel is in agreement with the 2013 American Society of Hematology 
(ASH) Choosing Wis ely initiative addres sing hematologic tests and 
treatments.245 There was non- uniform consensus among the Panel 
members based on differing institutional policies regarding the necessity 
for routine irradiation of blood products used in patients with MDS; 
however, the P anel agreed that all directed- donor products and transfused 
products for patients who are potential transplant candidates  should be 
irradiated. Additionally, CMV -safe (CMV -negative or leukopheresed) blood 
products are recommended whenever possible for recipients who are CMV -negative. Antibiotics are recom mended for bacterial infections and 
prophylaxis may be considered when starting patients on therapy, consistent with local hospital guidelines. Aminocaproic acid or other 
antifibrinolytic agents may be considered for bleeding episodes refractory 
to platelet transfusions or for profound thrombocytopenia. Hematopoietic 
cytokine support should be considered for refractory symptomatic 
cytopenias .
246 For example, recombinant human granulocyte colony -PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-22 stimulating factor (G -CSF) treatment could be considered for patients with 
MDS with neutropenia with recurrent or resistant bacterial infections.  
Post-transplantation, patients should receive antimicrobial  prophylaxis at 
least as long as they are on immunosuppressive therapy. Detailed 
recommendations are provided in the Guidelines generated by the 
American Society of Transplantation and Cellular Therapy247 and the 
NCCN Guidelines for Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation.  
Management of Thrombocytopenia  
Severe thrombocytopenia is associated with an increased risk for bleeding events and  is currently managed with platelet transfusions. The 
mechanism of thrombocytopenia in patients with MDS may be attributed to 
decreased platelet production (possibly related to regulatory pathways 
involving the production and/or metabolism of endogenous th rombopoietin 
[TPO]) as well as increased destruction of bone marrow megakaryocytes 
or circulating platelets.
248,249 Increased endogenous TPO levels have been 
reported among patients with MDS compared with healthy individuals.249 
At the same time, TPO receptor sites per platelet were decreased among patients with MDS compared to healthy individuals . The RA subgroup (as 
defined by Bennett et al
250) appeared to have the highest TPO levels 
compared with patients with MDS -EB or MDS -EB-T, while the number of 
TPO receptor sites remained similar across subtypes.249 Studies have 
reported that high endogenous TPO levels correlated with decreased 
platelet counts in patients with RA, but not in patients with MDS -EB or 
MDS -EB-T.249,251 This observation suggests that the regulatory pathway 
for endogenous TPO may be further disrupted in the latter group, 
potentially due to overexpression of TPO receptors in blasts that could 
lead to an inadequate TPO response.249,251 
Several studies are investigating the role of the TPO receptor agonist 
romiplostim in the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with 
lower -risk MDS.252- 257 Phase I/II studies with romiplostim showed promising rates of platelet response (46% –65%) in patients with lower -risk 
MDS.253,255 Randomized placebo- controlled studies in patients treated for 
lower -risk MDS have reported beneficial effects of romiplostim in terms of 
decreased bleeding events, reduced need for platelet transfusions in 
patients receiving HMAs ,252,254 and decreased frequency of dose 
reductions or delays in patients receiving lenalidomide therapy.256 In a 
randomized study including patients with low - or int -1–risk MDS (n  = 250), 
romiplostim was associated with increased platelet counts and decreased overall bleeding events ( P = .026 after 58 weeks of treatment compared to 
the placebo group).
258 However, due to the early drug discontinuation, 
interpretation of these data is limited. Following up on previous 
studies,253,258 an open- label extension study evaluated the long- term 
safety and efficacy of romiplostim in 60 patients with lower -risk MDS and 
found that most patients achieved durable responses.259 A model to 
predict response to romiplostim indicated that lower -risk MDS, lower 
baseline TPO levels (<500 pg/mL), and limited platelet transfusion history 
had the greatest effect on subsequent platelet response to romiplostim.257 
Eltrombopag is another TPO receptor agonist that has been shown to 
increase normal megakaryopoiesis in vitro in bone marrow cells isolated 
from patients with MDS.260,261 Ongoing phase I and II clinical trials are 
investigating the activity and safety of this agent for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with lower -risk MDS. A phase II study 
enrolled patients with low- risk or IPSS int-1 risk MDS with severe 
thrombocytopenia who were randomized 2:1 to receive eltrombopag or 
placebo.
262 In the interim analysis, 42.3%  of patients treated with 
eltrombopag demonstrated a platelet response, compared to 11.1%  of 
those treated with placebo (OR, 5.9; 95% CI, 2.3 –14.9;  P < .001 ). In the 
eltrombopag arm, the platelet response was not maintained in 25.5%  of 
patients. At 60 months, the cumulative thrombocytopenia relapse -free 
survival (RFS) rate was 63.6% . Fewer clinically significant bleeding 
events were reported in the eltrombopag arm compared to the placebo PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-23 arm ( incidence rate ratio, 0.54; 95% CI, 0.38– 0.75;  P = .0002 ). Grade 3–
4 adverse events occurred more frequently in the eltrombopag arm ( P = 
.002). The results from another phase II trial determined that 
eltrombopag monotherapy in patients with lower -risk MDS with 
cytopenia, including anemia, thrombocytopenia, or neutropenia, led to a 
44% rate of hematologic response at 16 to 20 weeks.263 A few patients 
acquired chromosomal abnormalities. A study by Fan et al264 found that 
50% of patients with moderate aplastic anemia or unilineage  cytopenias 
(platelet count <30 x 109/L or dependence on platelet transfusions or 
hemoglobin count <8.5 g/dL or dependence on RBC transfusions) 
treated with eltrombopag achieved a clinically meaningful response at 16 to 20 weeks. Out of 34 patients, two patients acquired cytogenetic 
abnormalities.   
A phase II trial evaluated  eltrombopag monotherapy or eltrombopag in 
combination with HMAs  in adults who have had >4 cycles of HMAs  but 
who have disease that fails to respond to treatment or disease that 
continues to have ongoing cytopenias.
265,266 Out of 28 evaluable patients, 
three  of those who received the combination treatment showed platelet 
improvement and three  had progressive disease.  The median OS was 12 
months.  The phase II ASPIRE trial evaluated eltrombopag monotherapy 
for thrombocytopenia in adult patients with intermediate- 2 or high- risk 
MDS and AML.267 Patients on eltrombopag monotherapy experienced 
significantly fewer clinically relevant thrombocytopenic events compared to those on placebo. However, there was no improvement in hematologic 
parameters or in platelet transfusion independence.  
Concerns for potential proliferation of leukemic blasts in response to exogenous TPO have been raised in earlier in vitro studies, particularly for 
high- risk MDS.
268,269 Results from ongoing clinical trials with TPO mimetics 
will help to elucidate the risks for leukemic transformations in patients with MDS. It should be noted that neither romiplostim nor eltrombopag is 
currently approved for use in patients with MDS.  
Management of Iron Overload  
RBC transfusions are a key component in the supportive care of patients 
with MDS. Although the specific therapies patients receive may alleviate 
RBC transfusion need, a substantial proportion of patients with MDS may 
not respond to these treatments and may develop iron overload and its 
consequences.270 Thus, effective treatment of transfusional siderosis in 
patients with MDS may be necessary.  
Studies in patients requiring relatively large numbers of RBC transfusions 
(eg, thalassemia, MDS) have demonstrated the pathophysiology and 
adverse effects of chronic iron overload on hepatic, cardiac, and endocrine 
function. Increased non- transferrin –bound iron, generated when plasma 
iron exceeds transferrin -binding capacity, combines with oxygen to form 
hydroxyl and oxygen radicals. These toxic elements cause lipid 
peroxidation and cell membrane, protein, DNA, and organ damage.271,272 
Although limited, there is evidence suggesting that organ dysfunction can 
result from iron overload in patients with MDS.273- 275 Retrospective data 
indicate that transfusional iron overload might be a contributor of 
increased mortality and morbidity in early -stage MDS.276 The WPSS has 
shown that the requirement for RBC transfusion is a negative prognostic 
factor for patients with MDS.203 A few studies have reported an 
improvement in OS for patients receiving iron chelation therapy compared 
to those who did not.277- 279 However, prospective studies are required to 
substantiate the value of iron chelation in these patients.  
A randomized prospective trial with 225 patients with lower -risk MDS 
(IPSS low or int -1) and serum ferritin levels >2247 pmol/L  demonstrated 
the benefit of iron chelation therapy.280 Compared to patients in the 
placebo arm (n = 76), patients in the deferasirox arm (n = 149) had a PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-24 higher median event -free survival (3.9 years [95% CI, 3.2– 4.3 years] vs. 
3.0 years [95% CI, 2.2– 3.7 years]; hazard ratio [ HR] = .64 [95% CI, 0.42–
0.96]). The median OS was 5.2 years (95% CI, 3.9 years –not evaluable) 
and 4.1 years ( 95% CI, 3.0 –4.9 years) for the deferasirox arm and the 
placebo arm respectively (HR = .83; 95% CI, .54– 1.28). Per the IWG 2006 
response criteria, the hematologic improvement in erythroid response was 
achieved in 39.6% (95% CI, 31.4% –47.8%) of patients treated with 
deferasirox compared to 27.6% (95% CI, 16.9% –38.3%) of patients 
treated with placebo.  
For patients with chronic RBC transfusion need, serum ferritin levels and associated organ dysfunction (heart, liver, and pancreas) should be 
monitored. The NCCN Panel Members recommend monitoring serum 
ferritin levels and number of RBC transfusions receiv ed as a practical 
means to determine iron stores and assess iron overload. Monitoring serum ferritin may be useful, aiming to decrease ferritin levels to <1000 
mcg/L. Beyond this level, serum ferritin can negatively impact the OS of 
patients with MDS.
281 It is recognized that such measurements, al though 
useful, are less precise than Superconducting Quantum Interference 
Device  (SQUID ), or T2* MRI, to provide a specific measurement of hepatic 
iron content.282,283  
Reversal of some of the consequences of iron overload in MDS and other 
iron overload states by iron chelation therapy has been shown in patients 
in whom the most effective chelation occurred.241,272 This included 
transfusion independence (TI) in a subset of the small group of patients with MDS who had undergone effective deferoxamine chelation for 1 to 4 
years.
284 In addition, improvement in cardiac iron content was 
demonstrated in these patients after chelation.285 Such findings have 
major implications for altering the morbidity of patients with MDS, 
particularly those with pre- existing cardiac or hepatic dysfunction.  The availability of iron chelators, such as deferoxamine and 
deferasirox,286,287 provide potentially useful drugs to more readily treat iron 
overload.  Deferoxamine (given as intramuscular or subcutaneous [SC] 
injections) is FDA -indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due 
to transfusion- dependent (TD) anemias. Deferasirox (given orally) is FDA -
indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood 
transfusions. Deferasirox has been evaluated in multiple phase II clinical 
trials in patients with TD -MDS.288- 290 A randomized phase II study 
evaluated the outcomes of deferasirox compared to placebo in patients with low- to intermediate -1–risk MDS.
280 The results demonstrated that 
deferasirox prolonged the median event -free survival by approximately 1 
year.280 The prescribing information for deferasirox contains a black -box 
warning pertaining to the increased risks for renal or hepatic impairment/failure and GI bleeding in certain patient populations, including 
patients with high- risk MDS. Deferasirox is contraindicated in patients with 
high- risk MDS.  
A third oral chelating agent, deferiprone, was U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration ( FDA)-approved (October 2011) in the United States for the 
treatment of patients with transfusional iron overload due to thalassemia when current chelation therapy is inadequate. The FDA approval was 
based on results from a retrospective analysis of data pooled from previous safety and efficacy studies of deferiprone in patients with 
transfusion- related iron overload refractory to existing chelation therapy. 
The prescribing inf ormation for deferiprone contains a black -box warning 
pertaining to risks for agranulocytosis , which can lead to serious infections 
and death. Controversy remains regarding the use of this agent.  The 
NCCN Task Force report, Transfusion and Iron Overload in Patients with 
Myelodysplastic Syndromes , provides detailed evidence regarding iron 
chelation in patients with MDS.
291 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-25 The NCCN Guidelines Panel recommends consideration of once- daily 
deferoxamine SC or deferasirox/ICL670 orally to decrease iron overload in 
patients who have received > 20 to 30 RBC transfusions, particularly for 
those who have lower -risk MDS or who are potential transplant candidates 
(with Low/int-1 MDS). For patients with serum ferritin levels > 2500 ng/mL, 
aim to  decrease ferritin levels to < 1000 ng/mL.  Ophthalmic and auditory 
tests are recommended annually when using deferasirox. Serum 
creatinine should be  monitored regularly upon starting deferasirox.  
As mentioned above, a black -box warning was added to the prescribing 
information for deferasirox. Following post -marketing use of deferasirox, 
there were case reports of acute renal failure, or hepatic failure, some of which were fatal. Most of the fatalit ies reported were in patients with 
multiple comorbidities and in advanced stages of their hematologic disorders. Additionally, there were post -marketing reports of cytopenias, 
including agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia, and GI bleeding in patients treated with deferasirox; some cases resulted in 
death. The relationship of these episodes to treatment with deferasirox 
has not yet been established. However, it is recommended that patients 
on deferasirox therapy be closely monitored. Monitoring should include measurement of serum creatinine and/or creatinine clearance and liver 
function tests prior to initiation of therapy and regularly thereafter. 
Deferasirox and deferoxamine should be avoided in patients with creatinine clearance <40 mL/min.
292 A phase IV study with 61 patients with 
MDS or AA determined that the adverse events noted within a 3- year 
period were largely mild or moderate.293 
Treatment of Related Anemia  
Erythropoiesis -stimulating agents (ESAs) such as  epoetin alfa  or the 
longer -acting darbepoetin, with or without G -CSF, have been evaluated in 
the treatment of symptomatic anemia in patients with MDS. Studies predominantly in patients with lower -risk MDS have demonstrated erythroid response rates of 40% and 60% (combined major and minor 
responses using IWG response criteria) in the initial trials.
294,295 Clinical 
trial results in patients with MDS have suggested that the overall response rates to darbepoetin are similar to or possibly higher than epoetin.
294- 297 
The improved response rates may in part be due to the dosage used 
(150– 300 mcg SC per week) or to the fact that patients with better risk  
were enrolled in studies of darbepoetin compared to epoetin. Features predictive of response have included relatively low basal sE PO levels, low 
percentage of marrow blasts, and few prior RBC transfusions.  
In a phase II study of patients with MDS (RA, MDS -RS, and MDS -EB; 
N = 50), Epo combined with G -CSF (n  = 47 evaluable) resulted in 
hematologic responses in 38% of patients (complete response [CR], 
21%).
298 Epo and G -CSF appeared to have synergistic activity. Lower 
sEPO levels (<500 mU/mL) and a lower pretreatment RBC transfusion 
requirement (<2 units per month) were associated with a higher response 
rate; response rates were not significantly different across IPSS risk 
groups. Median survival, including in patients from  a prior study, was 26 
months (N  = 71). Among patients with low -risk IPSS, median survival had 
not been reached at 5 years; the 5- year survival rate was 68%. Median 
survival times among the int -1– and int -2–risk groups were 27 months and 
14 months, respectively. AML progression occurred in 28% of patients 
overall during the observation period. The frequency of AML progression 
in the low -, int-1–, int-2–, and high- risk groups were 12%, 21%, 45%,  and 
100%, respectively. Among patients with responding disease who received maintenance treatment with Epo and G -CSF, the median 
duration of response was 24 months.  
A subsequent analysis of combined data from three phase II Nordic trials 
(n = 121) on the long- term outcomes with Epo plus G -CSF (given for 12–
18 weeks and followed by maintenance in responders) in patients with 
MDS reported a hematologic response rate of 39% with a median duration PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-26 of response of 23 months.299 Long- term outcomes were compared with 
outcomes from untreated patients (n  = 237) as controls. Based on 
multivariate Cox regression analysis, treatment with Epo plus G -CSF was 
associated with a significantly improved survival outcome ( HR, 0.61; 95% 
CI, 0.44 –0.83; P = .002). An exploratory analysis revealed that the 
association between treatment and survival was significant only for the 
IPSS low -risk group and was further restricted to patients requiring fewer 
than 2 units of RBC transfusions per month. No s ignificant association was 
found between the treatment and frequency of AML progression.  
Similar findings were reported in a study from the French myelodysplasia 
group, which analyzed outcomes with ESAs (epoetin or darbepoetin), with 
or without G -CSF, in patients with MDS with anemia (N  = 403).300 Based 
on the IWG 2000 criteria, the hematologic response rate was 62% with a median duration of 20 months; the corresponding results from the IWG 
2006 criteria were 50% and 24 months, respectively. IPSS low - or int -1-
risk was associated with significantly higher response rates and longer response durations. In a comparison of outcomes (in the low - or int -1-risk 
subset with anemia) between treated patients (n  = 284) and a historical 
cohort of untreated patients (n = 225), multivariate analysis showed a 
significant association between treatment with ESAs and survival 
outcomes. The frequency of AML progression was similar between the 
cohorts. In a phase II study that evaluated darbepoetin (given every 2 
weeks for 12 weeks), with or without G -CSF (added at 12 weeks in 
non-responders), patients in the lower -risk IPSS group with anemia (and 
sEPO levels <500 mU/mL) had hematologic response rates of 48% at 12 
weeks and 56% at 24 we eks.
301 Median duration of response was not 
reached at the median follow -up of 52 months. The 3- year cumulative 
incidence of AML progression was 14.5%, and the 3- year survival rate 
was 70%. This study also showed improvements in QOL parameters 
among patients with responding disease.301 Collectively, these studies suggest that ESAs may provide clinical benefit 
to patients in the lower -risk group with symptomatic anemia. Limited data 
are available on the effectiveness of ESAs in the treatment of anemia in patients with lower -risk MDS  with del(5q). Epo has been shown to promote 
the growth of cytogenetically normal cells isolated from patients with del(5q), while having minimal proliferative effects on MDS progenitor cells 
from these patients in vitro.
302 Retrospective studies from the French 
group reported hematologic response rates between 46% and 64%, with a median response duration of 11 months (mean duration, 13– 14 months) 
among patients with del(5q) treated with ESAs, with or without G-CSF.
300,303 Duration of response in these patients was significantly 
decreased compared with patients without del(5q) (mean duration, 25 –27 
months). Based on multivariate analysis, del(5q) was a significant 
predictor of a shorter response duration with treatment (see Prognostic 
Category Very Low, Low, Intermediate -1 Treatment  in the algorithm).300 
In March 2007 and 2008, the FDA announced alerts and strengthened 
safety warnings for the use of ESAs based on observed increased 
mortality and possible tumor promotion and thromboembolic events in 
non-MDS patients  receiving ESAs when dosing to achieve a targeted 
hemoglobin level > 12 g/dL. Specifically, the study patients had chronic 
kidney failure; were receiving radiation therapy for various malignancies, 
including head and neck cancer, advanced breast cancer, lymphoid 
cancer, or non- small cell lung cancer; were patients with cancer not 
receiving chemotherapy; or were patients undergoing orthopedic surgery. However, ESAs have been used safely in large numbers of adult patients 
with MDS and have become important for symptomatic improvement of 
anemia caused by this disease, often with a decrease in RBC transfusion 
requirements. Studies assessing the long- term use of Epo with or without 
G-CSF in patients with MDS have shown no negative impact of such 
treatment on su rvival or AML evolution when compared to either 
randomized controls
304 or historical controls.299,300  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-27 Jadersten et al299 reported improved survival in patients with low- risk MDS 
with low transfusion need following treatment with these agents. In another 
study, improved survival and decreased AML progression of patients with 
IPSS low or int -1 following Epo treatment, with or without G -CSF, 
compared to the historical control IMRAW database patients were 
reported.300 Thus, these data do not indicate a negative impact of these 
drugs in the treatment of MDS. Given these data, the NCCN Panel 
recommends the use of ESAs in the management of symptomatic anemia 
in patients with MDS, with a target hemoglobin range of 10 to 12 g/dL but 
not exceeding  12 g/dL.  
The phase III randomized COMMANDS trial evaluated the use of 
luspatercept in patients with no del(5q) with IPSS -R very -low risk, low-
risk, or intermediate- risk MDS (73% of whom had ring sideroblasts)  with 
no prior ESA treatment, with sEPO <500 mU/mL, and with RBC 
transfusion requirements .305 Data from the primary analysis revealed that 
60% of patients receiving luspatercept achieved the primary endpoint of 
RBC transfusion independence for ≥12 weeks with a concurrent mean 
hemoglobin increase of ≥1.5 g/dL, compared to 35% of patients receiving 
epoetin alfa ( P < .0001). In patients with RS -positive disease, response 
rates for the primary endpoint were 65% with luspatercept versus 29% with epoetin alfa, but in those with RS -negative disease, response rates 
were similar, 47% with luspatercept versus 50% for epoet in alfa. 
However, of note, t he mean duration of response in these patients was 
126.6 weeks with luspatercept and 89.7 weeks with epoetin alfa. In a subgroup analysis, in patients with sEPO ≤200 mU/mL, the response 
rate for the primary endpoint was 66% in t he luspatercept arm versus 
41% in the epoetin arm. Overall, the most common grade 3– 4 TEAEs in 
the luspatercept arm included hypertension and anemia (10% each). For epoetin alfa, anemia and pneumonia (8% each) were the most common 
grade 3– 4 TEAEs.   Clinical trials with other experimental agents that are reportedly capable of 
increasing hemoglobin levels should be explored in patients with disease 
that is not responding to standard therapy. These drugs should be used in 
the context of therapeutic appr oaches for the underlying prognostic risk 
group.  
In March 2007, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) 
generated a National Coverage Determination (NCD) on the use of ESAs 
in non- renal disease applications. Following a public comment period, it 
was determined that the scope of the NCD should be revised to include 
cancer and related neoplastic conditions. The narrowed scope of the NCD 
excludes MDS as it is defined in the report as a premalignant condition 
and not an oncologic disease.
306 Thus, local Medicare contractors may 
continue to make reasonable and necessary determinations on the use of ESAs that are not determined by the NCD.  
Treatment of MDS -Related ESA-Refractory Anemia 
Anemia associated with lower -risk MDS generally becomes resistant to 
available treatment, leading to a dependence on RBC transfusions, iron 
overload, and decreased QOL  and survival.189,307- 309 In November 2019, 
the FDA approved the use of luspatercept for the treatment of anemia in 
adult patients with beta thalassemia who require regular RBC 
transfusions. Luspatercept is a recombinant fusion protein made up of a 
modified extracellular domain of the human activin receptor type IIB linked 
to the human IgG1 Fc domain that binds transforming growth factor bet a 
(TGFβ)  ligands to reduce SMAD2 and SMAD3 signaling, which enables 
erythroid mat uration.310 In April 2020, based on encouraging phase III 
data,309 the FDA approved luspatercept for the treatment of anemia in 
patients with lower -risk MDS with RS that failed treatment with ESAs. In 
the phase III MEDALIST trial, patients with very -low-risk, low- risk, or 
intermediate- risk MDS with RS who had been receiving regular RBC 
transfusions were either treated with luspatercept (n = 153) or given PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-28 placebo (n = 76).309 In this trial, eligible patients had MDS with RS  
according to the WHO criteria (ie, either RS ≥15% or RS ≥5% if an SF3B1  
mutation was present, and with <5% bone marrow blasts) ; and had 
disease that was refractory to or was unlikely to respond to ESAs . During 
weeks 1 through 24 of treatment, 38% of patients in the luspatercept 
group, compared to 13% of those in the placebo group, met the study 
primary endpoint of transfusion independence for 8 weeks or longer  (P < 
.001).  The median duration of the longest single continuous period of 
response to luspatercept was 30.6 weeks. The most common adverse 
events associated with luspat ercept included fatigue, diarrhea, asthenia, 
nausea, and dizziness, which decreased over time.  Additionally, 81.0% of 
patients in the luspatercept group met the secondary endpoint of a mean 
absolute increase in neutrophil  count  of ≥0.5 x 109/L from baseline 
compared to 51.3% of patients in the placebo group. 70.6% and 42.1% of 
patients in the luspatercept and placebo groups, respectively, met the 
secondary endpoint of a mean absolute increase in platelet  count  of ≥30 x 
109/L.311 In the overall population, 4.6% and 7.9% of patients in the 
luspatercept and placebo groups, respectively, had treatment -emergent 
grade 3 or 4 neutropenia.  
In a phase II multicenter, open- label, dose- finding study (PACE -MDS), 
patients with low - or intermediate- 1 risk MDS or non -proliferative CMML 
who had anemia with or without RBC transfusion support were treated 
with luspatercept ( n = 58).312 Of importance, 78% of the treated patients 
had RS ≥15%, which was a positive predictor of response. Some patients 
were enrolled in a dose -escalation cohort (n = 27) receiving luspatercept 
once every 21 days at doses rangi ng from 0.125  to 1.75 mg/kg over a 
maximum of 12 weeks. O ther patients  enrolled in the dose- expansion 
cohort (n = 31) received luspatercept doses ranging from 1.0  to 1.75 
mg/kg , and patients could be treated for up to 5 years.312 Thirty -two of 51 
patients (63%) who received higher doses of luspatercept (0.75– 1.75 
mg/kg) achieved hematologic  improvement -erythroid, defined as : hemoglobin concentration increase of ≥ 1.5 g/dL from baseline for at least 
14 days in patients with low transfusion burden, and a reduction in RBC 
transfusion of ≥4 RBC  units or ≥50% reduction in RBC  units over 8 
weeks versus pre -treatment transfusion burden in patients with high 
transfusion burden.312  
Long-term efficacy and safety data of the PACE -MDS study  support the 
use of lusptercept .313 Of the 108 patients who received treatment with 
luspatercept, 44 patients had non -ring sideroblastic disease and 48  had 
received prior treatment with ESAs. The hematologic improvement in 
erythroid response was 54% in the overall group and 36% in patients with 
non-ring sideroblastic MDS. Among 73 evaluable patients, 44% of the 
overall group achieved RBC -TI ≥8 weeks, compared to 35% of the 
subgroup with non- ring sideroblastic MDS. The most common 
treatment -emergent adverse occurrences were  headache, bone pain and 
hypertension  in patients with non- ring sideroblastic MDS .  
In a phase II trial comprising 57 patients with lower -risk MDS that had 
relapsed or was refractory to ESAs and who were RBC transfusion 
dependent, treatment with imetelstat, a telomerase inhibitor, resulted in a 
37% and 23% RBC TI rate, at 8 and 24 weeks respectively.314 At the same 
time points, RBC TI rates of 42% and 29% respectively were  observed in 
a subgroup of 38 patients without del(5q) and who were not previously 
treated with an HMA or lenalidomide. The median duration for TI was 65 
weeks for the overall group compared to 86 weeks in the subgroup. 
Hematologic improvement , in terms of erythroid  response per the IWG 
2006 response criteria, was achieved in 65% of patients in the overall 
group and 68% of patients in the subgroup. Overall, the most common 
grade ≥3 hemat ologic adverse events were neutropenia (60%), 
thrombocytopenia (54%), and anemia (19%) . At 5%, the most common  
grade ≥3 nonhematologic adverse events were back pain, increased PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-29 alanine aminotransferase, increased aspartate aminotransferase, and 
bronchitis.  
In the phase III IMerge  study, patients with IPSS low or intermediate- 1 risk 
MDS with disease that relapsed or that was refractory to ESAs or who 
were ineligible (with sE PO >500 mU/mL) for ESAs were randomized 2:1 to 
receive treatment with imetelstat or placebo.315 A higher percentage of 
patients treated with imetelstat achieved the primary endpoint of RBC -TI 
for ≥8 weeks ( 40% vs. 15% in the placebo arm; P = .0008)  and the 
secondary endpoint of RBC -TI for ≥ 24 weeks (28% vs. 3% in the placebo 
arm; P = .0001) . Out of those who achieved the primary endpoint, the 
median RBC -TI duration was 51.6 weeks with imetelstat and 13.3 weeks 
with placebo. Hematologic improvement -erythroid was observed in 64% of 
patients in the imetelstat arm (vs. 52% in the placebo arm) when assessed 
by the IWG 2006 response criteria. When assessed by the IWG 2018 
criteria, hematologic improvement -erythroid was 42% in the imetelstat arm 
and 13% in the placebo arm. The results of a subgroup analysis showed that among patients with sEPO >500 mU/mL, 26.9% (vs. 9.1% for 
placebo; P = .107) and 15.4% (vs. 0.0% for placebo; P  = .050) achieved TI 
with imetelstat at 8 weeks and 24 weeks, respectively. Ninety -one percent  
of patients treated with imetelstat experienced grade 3– 4 treatment 
emergent adverse event s (TEAEs) , compared to 47% of patients receiving 
placebo, with neutropenia (68% vs. 3% in the placebo arm) and 
thrombocytopenia (62% vs. 8% in the placebo arm) being reported as the 
most frequent events.  
Low-Intensity Therapy 
Low-intensity therapy includes the use of low -intensity chemotherapy or 
biologic response modifiers. Although this type of treatment is mainly 
provided in the outpatient setting, supportive care or occasional 
hospitalization (eg, for treatment of infections) may be needed.  Hypomethylating Agents  
The DNA methyltransferase inhibitor (DMTI) HMAs  AzaC and decitabine 
(5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine)  have been shown in randomized phase III trials to 
decrease the risk of leukemic transformation and, in a portion of patients, 
to improve survival.316- 319 In a phase III trial that compared AzaC with 
supportive care in patients from all IPSS risk groups (N  = 191; previously 
untreated in 83%), hematologic responses occurred in 60% of patients in 
the AzaC arm (7% CR, 16% partial response [PR], and 37% hematol ogic 
improvement) compared with a 5% hematologic improvement (and no 
responses) in patients receiving supportive care.319 The median time to 
AML progression or death was significantly prolonged in the AzaC arm 
compared with patients receiving supportive care (21 vs. 13 months; 
P = .007). Further improvement was seen in patients who received AzaC 
earlier in the course of disease, suggesting that the drug prolonged the duration of stable disease. Subsequently, Silverman and colleagues
320 
provided a summary of three AzaC  studies in a total of 306 patients with 
high- risk MDS.320 In this analysis, which included patients receiving either 
SC or intravenous (IV) delivery of the drug , complete remissions were 
seen in 10% to 17% of patients treated with AzaC and partial remissions 
were rare; hematologic improvement was seen in 23% to 36% of these patients. Ninety percent of the responses occurred prior to cycle 6 with a 
median number of cycles to first response of 3 .
320 The authors concluded 
that AzaC provided important clinical benefits for patients with high- risk 
MDS. Results from a phase III randomized trial in patients (N  = 358) with 
higher -risk MDS (IPSS int -1, 5%; int -2, 41%; high risk, 47%) demonstrated 
that AzaC was superior to conventional  care (ie, standard chemotherapy 
or supportive care) regarding OS.316 AzaC was associated with a 
significantly longer median survival compared with conventional care (24.5 
vs. 15 months; HR, 0.58; 95% CI, 0.43– 0.77; P = .0001), thus providing 
support for the use of this agent in patients with higher -risk disease.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-30 AzaC therapy is a recommended option for progressive MDS or relatively 
high- risk disease. This drug has been approved by the FDA for the 
treatment of patients with MDS and is generally administered at a dose of 
75 mg/m2/day SC for 7 days every 28 days for at least six  courses. 
Treatment courses may need to be extended further or may be used as a 
bridging therapy to more definitive therapy (eg, patients whose marrow 
blast counts require lowering prior to HCT). Although the optimal duration 
of therapy with Az aC has not been defined, some data suggest that 
continuation of AzaC beyond first response may improve remission quality. In a secondary analysis of the phase III randomized AZA -001 trial, 
continued AzaC therapy resulted in further improvement in response category in 48% of all responders.
321 Although most patients with 
responding disease achieved a first response by 6 cycles of therapy, up to 
12 cycles were required for the majority of responders to attain a best 
response.321 In this study, the median number of cycles from first response 
to best response was 3 to 3.5 cycles, and patients with responding disease received a median of 8 additional cycles (range, 0– 27 cycles) 
beyond first response.
321 
An alternative 5- day schedule of AzaC has been evaluated, both as an SC 
regimen (including the 5- 2-2 schedule: 75 mg/m2/day SC for 5 days 
followed by 2 days of no treatment, then 75 mg/m2/day for 2 days, every 
28 days; and the 5- day schedule: 75 mg/m2/day SC for 5 days every 28 
days)322 and as an IV regimen (75 mg/m2/day IV for 5 days every 28 
days).323 Although response rates with the 5 -day regimens appeared 
similar to the approved 7 -day dosing schedule,322,323 survival benefit with 
AzaC has only been demonstrated using the 7 -day schedule.  
Decitabine, given IV and administered with a regimen that required hospitalization of patients, has also shown encouraging results for the 
therapy of patients with higher -risk MDS. As the treatment regimen was 
generally associated with low -intensity –type t oxicities, it is also considered to be a “low -intensity therapy.” In earlier phase II studies, approximately 
30% of patients experienced cytogenetic conversion,
324 with an overall 
response rate of 49%, and a 64% response rate was seen in patients with 
a high- risk IPSS score325; results were similar to those seen in AzaC 
studies.317,326 
A phase III randomized trial of decitabine (15 mg/m2 IV infusion over 3 
hours every 8 hours [ie, 45 mg/m2/day] on 3 consecutive days every 6 
weeks for up to 10 cycles) compared with supportive care in adult patients 
(N = 170) with primary and secondary MDS (IPSS int-1, 30.5%; int -2, 
43.5%; high risk, 26%) indicated higher response rates, remission durations, times to AML progression, and survival benefits in the int -2 and 
high- risk groups.
317 Overall response rate (CR + PR) with decitabine was 
17% (median duration, 10 months), with an additional 13% of patients 
showing hematologic improvement. The probability of progression to AML 
or death was 1.68 -fold greater for patients receiving supportive care than 
for patients receiving decitabine. Based on this study and three supportive 
phase II trials,327 the drug has also been approved by the FDA for treating 
patients with MDS.  
In another phase III randomized trial with this regimen, decitabine was 
compared with best supportive care (BSC) in patients ≥60 years of age  
(N = 233; median age, 70 years; range, 60– 90 years) with higher -risk 
MDS (IPSS int -1, 7%; int -2, 55%; high risk, 38%) not eligible for intensive 
therapy.318 Median PFS was significantly improved in patients receiving 
decitabine compared with supportive care (6.6 vs. 3 months; HR, 0.68; 
95% CI, 0.52– 0.88; P = .004), and the risk of AML progression at 1 year 
was reduced with decitabine (22% vs. 33%; P  = .036). However, no 
significant differences were observed between decitabine and supportive 
care for the primary endpoint of OS (10 vs. 8.5 months, respectively) or for 
median AML -free survival (8.8 vs. 6.1 months, respectively).318 In the 
decitabine arm, a CR and PR were observed in 13% and 6% of patients, PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-31 respectively, with hematologic improvement in an additional 15%; in the 
supportive care arm, hematologic improvement was seen in 2% of patients 
(with no hematologic responses). Decitabine was associated with 
significant improvements in patient -reported QOL  measures (as assessed 
by the European Organi zation for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
[EORTC]  QOL Questionnaire C30) for the dimensions of fatigue and 
physical functioning.318 
In 2007, Kantarjian and colleagues328 provided an update to their study of 
115 patients with higher -risk MDS using alternative and lower -dose 
decitabine treatment regimens.328 Patients received one of three  different 
schedules of decitabine, including both SC and IV administration with a 
mean of seven courses  of therapy. Responses were improved with the 
longer duration of therapy. Overall, 80 patients (70%) responded with 40 patients achieving a CR and 40 achieving a PR. The median remission 
duration was 20 months with a median survival time of 22 months. The 
three different schedules of decitabine were compared in another 
randomized study of 95 patients with MDS or CMML, receiving 20 
mg/m
2/day IV for 5 days; 20 mg/m2/day SC for 5 days; or 10 mg/m2/day IV 
for 10 days.329 The 5- day IV schedule was considered the optimal 
schedule. The CR rate in this arm was 39%, compared with 21% in the 
5-day SC arm and 24% in the 10- day IV arm ( P < .05). Alternate dosing 
regimens using lower doses of decitabine administered in an outpatient 
setting are currently being evaluated.  
A phase I dose -escalation study evaluated the combination of decitabine 
with cedazuridine in 44 patients with intermediate to high- risk MDS or 
CMML.330 The clinical responses were comparable to those obtained with 
a 5-day treatment with IV  decitabine.  These results were confirmed in a 
phase II study documenting bioequivalence for this combination in patients 
with IPSS int -1 and above with 60% of patients achieving a clinical 
response and 21% of patients having a complete response.331 Results from the phase III ASCERTAIN randomized trial with a cross over design 
showed that the combination treatment had an equivalent decitabine 
exposure to IV  decitabine.332 A clinical response was obtained in 70 % of 
evaluable patients. Occurring in 61%, 57%, and 50% of patients, 
respectively, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and anemia were the most 
common ≥3 adverse events.  
Several retrospective studies have evaluated the role of cytoreductive therapy with HMAs  prior to allogeneic HCT (with both myeloablative and 
reduced- intensity conditioning [RIC] regimens).
333- 336 These studies 
suggest that HMAs  may provide a feasible alternative to induction 
chemotherapy regimens prior to transplant, and may serve as a beneficial  
bridge to allogeneic HCT. The VidazaAllo study, which enrolled patients 
with higher -risk MDS aged 55 to 70 years, reported a higher event -free 
survival rate in patients who underwent transplant following a reduced -
intensity conditioning regimen after pretreatment with AzaC , compared to 
those who received continuous AzaC  therapy.337 One meta -analysis found 
that the use of HMAs  before HCT did not improve OS compared to 
chemotherapy, except in older patients.338 However, these agents should 
not be used in lieu of early transplantation or to delay transplantation until loss of response or disease progression.
339 
AzaC and decitabine are considered to be therapeutically similar, although the improved survival of patients with higher -risk MDS  treated with AzaC 
compared to control in a phase III trial, as indicated above, supports the preferred use of AzaC as a first -line treatment option for patients with high-
risk MDS who are not transplant candidates  until more trial data are 
available. A lack of CR, PR or hematologic improvement, or frank 
progression to AML (in particular with loss of control [proliferation] of peripheral counts or excess toxicity that precludes continuation of therapy) 
may be indicative of disease that fails to  respond to HMAs . The minimum 
number of courses prior to discontinuing treatment should be four courses PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-32 for decitabine or six courses for AzaC. As discussed earlier, the optimal 
duration of therapy with HMAs  has not been well -defined and no 
consensus exists. The NCCN Guidelines Panel generally feels that 
treatment should be continued if there is ongoing response and if there are 
no toxicities. Modifications should be made to the dosing frequency for 
individual patients in the event of toxicity.  
As data have predominantly indicated altered natural history and 
decreased evol ution to AML in patients who respond to DMTI HMAs , the 
major candidates  for these drugs are 1) patients with IPSS int -2– or 
high-risk disease ; or 2) IPSS -R intermediate- , high -, or very -high- risk 
disease with any of the following criteria:  
• Patients who are not candidates for high -intensity therapy;  
• Patients who are potential candidates for allogeneic HCT but for whom 
delay in receipt of that procedure is anticipated (eg, due to need to 
further reduce the blast count, improve patient performance status, or 
identify a donor). In these circumstances, the drugs may be used as a 
bridging therapy for that procedure; or  
• Patients with disease that is  not expected to respond to (or with disease 
relapse after) ESAs or IST.  
Biologic Response Modifiers and Immunosuppressive Therapy  
The currently available non- chemotherapy, low -intensity agents (biologic 
response modifiers) include: ATG, cyclosporine, and lenalidomide, all of 
which have shown some efficacy in phase II and phase III trials.4,340 -345  
Use of IST with ATG, with or without cyclosporine,343,345  has been shown in 
several studies to be most efficacious in patients with MDS with 
HLA-DR15 histocompatibility type, marrow hypoplasia, normal 
cytogenetics, low -risk disease, and evidence of a PNH clone.161,346 
Researchers from the National Institutes of Health ( NIH) have updated 
their analysis of 129 patients treated with IST with equine ATG alone, cyclosporine alone, or in combination.163 This study demonstrated 
markedly improved response rates in the subgroup of patients aged ≤60 
years with IPSS int -1 risk or patients with high response probability 
characteristics as indicated by their prior criteria (ie, age, number of 
transfusions, possibly HLA -DR15 status).163 
Although equine ATG has been found to be more effective than rabbit 
ATG for treating AA,347 only limited data within the setting of MDS are 
available regarding the comparative effectiveness of the two ATG formulations. In a relatively small phase II study in patients with MDS 
(N = 35; primarily RA subtype), both equine and rabbit ATG were shown to 
be feasible and active.
348 Some institutions have used tacrolimus in place 
of cyclosporine A based on the limited data that showed similar efficacy 
with lower incidence of adverse events in children with AA.349,350 
A phase I –II trial examined the combination of IST with eltrombopag in 
patients with aplastic anemia  (not MDS) .351 Three cohorts were used that 
differed by the schedule for the start of treatment and the duration of 
treatment. The most common grade 3 or above adverse event attributed 
to eltrombopag was an abnormality in a liver test (18%) , specifically 
transaminase elevation and/or hyperbilirubinemia.  The complete 
hematologic response and overall response rate ( ORR ) for the combined 
cohorts  at 6 months , when compared to a historical cohort of 102 
patients who were treated with IST, were 39% (95% CI, 29 %–49%) 
versus  10% and 87% (95% CI, 80 %–94%) versus  66%, respectively. The 
rate of clonal evolution was not increased  in patients who received 
eltrombopag compared to a historical cohort at the 2 -year time point. A 
phase II trial with patients with aplastic anemia reported an ORR of 76% in patients receiving the combination treatment compared to 71% in 
patients treated with IST only.
352 The complete remission rate, median 
time to response, and the survival rate at 2 years were similar in both 
groups. One study showed that STAT3- mutant cytotoxic T- lymphocyte PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-33 clones are present in a small proportion (5%) of patients with MDS 
(including those lacking LGLs), which is associated with HLA -DR15 
positivity, marrow hypocellularity, and neutropenia.162 Despite lack of a 
survival difference in the STAT3- mutated versus patients with 
non-mutated MDS treated with IST in this small cohort, these findings 
suggest that STAT3- mutant cytotoxic T- lymphocyte clones may facilitate 
persistently dysregulated autoimmune activation akin to that present in 
other patients with MDS responsive to IST.162 
Lenalidomide (a thalidomide analog) is an immunomodulating agent with activity in patients with lower -risk MDS .
31,353 Beneficial results have been 
particularly evident for patients with the del(5q) chromosomal 
abnormality.31,353,354 A multicenter phase II trial of lenalidomide (10 mg/day  
for 21 days every 4 weeks or 10 mg daily) in patients with anemic RBC -TD 
MDS with del(5q), with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities 
(N = 148), demonstrated that the hematologic response to lenalidomide 
was rapid (median time to response, 4.6 weeks; range, 1– 49 weeks) and 
sustained.31 RBC- TI (assessed at 24 weeks) occurred in 67% of patients; 
among patients with IPSS low/int -1 risk (n  = 120), 69% achieved TI.31 
Cytogenetic responses were achieved in 62 of 85 evaluable patients 
(73%); 45% had a complete cytogenetic response. The most common 
grade 3 or 4 adverse events included myelosuppression (neutropenia, 
55%; thrombocytopenia, 44%), which often required treatment interruption 
or dose reduction. Thus, careful monitoring of blood counts during the 
treatment period is mandatory when using this agent, particularly in 
patients with renal dysfunction (due to the drug’s renal route of excretion). 
Lenalidomide has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of TD 
anemia in patients with IPSS low/int -1–risk MDS with del(5q) with or 
without additional cytogenetic abnormalities.  
 A phase III randomized controlled trial compared the activity of 
lenalidomide (5 mg/d ay for 28 days or 10 mg/day  for 21 days every 28 days) versus placebo in patients with RBC -TD (N = 205) lower -risk MDS 
(IPSS low - and int -1 risks) and del(5q).
355 The primary endpoint of 
RBC- TI ≥26 weeks was achieved in a significantly greater proportion of 
patients treated with lenalidomide (5 or 10 mg) versus placebo (37% vs. 
57% vs. 2%, respectively; P ≤ .0001 for both lenalidomide groups vs. 
placebo). Among patients achieving RBC -TI with lenalidomide, onset of 
erythroid response was rapid, with a median time of 4.2 weeks and 4.3 
weeks in the 5 -mg and 10 -mg lenalidomide groups, respectively.355 
Cytogenetic response rates were significantly higher for the lenalidomide 
5-mg (23%; P = .0299) and 10 -mg (57%; P < .0001) groups compared 
with placebo (0%); CR rates were observed in 12% and 35% of patients in the lenalidomide 5- mg and 10 -mg arms, respectively. The estimated 
2-year cumulative risk to AML progression was 17% (95% CI, 8.7 –33.3), 
12.6% (95% CI, 5.4 –27.7), and 16.7% (95% CI, 8.3– 32.0) in the 
lenalidomide 5 -mg, 10 -mg, and placebo groups, respectively. This 
increased to 35% (95% CI, 21.4– 54.6),  31% (95% CI, 18.1– 48.8), and 
43.3% (95% CI, 27.6– 63.1), respectively, at the estimated 4 -year mark. 
The median OS among the lenalidomide 5 -mg, 10 -mg, and placebo 
groups (3.5 vs. 4.0 vs. 2.9 years, respectively) was not statistically significantly different; however, median survival was significantly longer 
in patients who achieved RBC -TI (5.7 years; 95% CI, 3.2 –no response) 
compared to non -responders (2.7 years; 95% CI, 2.0– 4.7). The most 
common grade 3 or 4 adverse events were myelosuppression and deep 
vein thrombosis (DVT). Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was reported in 77%, 
75%, and 16% of patients and thrombocytopenia occurred in 37%, 38%, 
and 2% of patients in the lenalidomide 5 -mg, 10 -mg, and placebo arms, 
respectively. Grade 3 or 4 DVT occurred in 3 patients in the lenalidomide 10-mg arm and in one patient in the placebo arm.
355 
A comparative analysis evaluated outcomes of patients with RBC -TD 
IPSS low/int -1–risk MDS with del(5q) receiving lenalidomide (based on 
data from the two aforementioned trials [n  = 295]) compared with no PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-34 treatment (based on data from untreated patients in a multicenter registry 
[n = 125]).356 Untreated patients from the registry had received BSC, 
including RBC transfusion, iron chelation therapy, and/or ESAs. The 
2-year cumulative incidence of AML progression was 7% with 
lenalidomide and 12% in the untreated cohort; the corresponding 5 -year 
rates were 23% and 20%, respectively; the median time to AML 
progression had not been reached in either cohort at the time of 
publication. Lenalidomide was not a significant factor for AML progression 
in either univariate or multivariate analyses. The 2 -year OS probabilities 
were 90% with lenalidomide and 74% in the untreated cohort; the 
corresponding 5- year OS probabilities were 54% and 40.5%, respectively, 
with a median OS of 5.2 years and 3.8 years ( P = .755).356 Based on 
multivariate analysis using Cox proportional hazard models with left 
truncation, lenalidomide was associated with a significantly decreased risk 
of death compared with no treatment (HR, 0.597; 95% CI, 0.399– 0.894; 
P = .012). Other independent factors associated with a decreased risk of 
death were female sex, higher hemoglobin levels, and higher platelet 
counts. Conversely, independent factors associated with increased risk of 
death included older age and greater RBC transfusion burden.356 
A phase II study evaluated lenalidomide treatment in patients with RBC-
TD (N = 214) low - or int -1–risk MDS without del(5q).357 Results showed 
that 26% of the patients with non-del(5q) (56 of 214) achieved TI after a 
median of 4.8 weeks of treatment. TI continued for a median duration of 
41 weeks. The median rise in hemoglobin was 3.2 g/dL (range, 1.0– 9.8 
g/dL) for those achieving TI. A 50% or greater reduction in transfusion 
requirement was noted in an additional 37 patients (17%), yielding an 
overall rate of hematologic improvement of 43%. The most common grade 
3 or 4 adverse events were neutropenia ( 30%) and thrombocytopenia 
(25%).  An international phase III study of 239 patients with IPSS low - or int -1–risk 
MDS and RBC -TD and lacking the del(5q) abnormality evaluated the role 
of lenalidomide treatment.340 Patients receiving lenalidomide (n = 160) 
compared to placebo (n = 79) had a higher rate of RBC -TI (26.9% vs. 
2.5%; P < .001) that lasted a median duration of 31 weeks (95% CI, 20.7 –
59.1 weeks). TI persisting > 8 weeks was seen in 27% of patients receiving 
lenalidomide versus 2.5% of patients in the placebo cohort ( P < .001). 
Overall, 90% of patients had disease that responded to therapy within 16 weeks. Transfusion reduction of four or more units of packed RBCs was 
seen in 22% of lenalidomide- treated patients while no reduction was seen 
in the placebo group. Incidence of treatment -related mortality was 2.5% in 
both groups; however, the incidence of myelosuppression was higher in the lenalidomide- treated group. In comparing the patients receiving 
lenalidomide versus placebo, the incidence of grade 3 or 4 neutropenia 
was 6 1.9% versus 12.7%, respectively, and the rate of thrombocytopenia 
was 35.6% versus 3.8%, respectively.
340 Further evaluation in more 
extended clinical trials is needed to determine the efficacy of this drug and 
other agents for patients with non-del(5q) MDS, particularly addressing the 
characterization of the subgroup of patients with MDS who responded to lenalidomide. The NCCN Guidelines Panel recommends lenalidomide be 
considered for patients with symptomatically anemic non- del(5q) MDS with 
anemia that did not respond to prior  therapy.  
A phase III randomized trial in patients with lower -risk, ESA- refractory, 
non-del(5q) MDS compared lenalidomide alone (10 mg/day  for 21 days 
every 28 days) with patients receiving lenalidomide in conjunction with 
epoetin alfa (60,000 U/wk).
358 Erythroid response after 4 treatment cycles 
was 23.1% (95% CI, 13.5– 35.2) versus 39.4% (95% CI, 27.6– 52.2; 
P = .044), respectively. Overall RBC -TI was not statistically different 
between groups (13.8% vs. 24.2%; P = .13). However, in a subgroup 
analysis that excluded patients with heavy RBC transfusion dependence 
(defined as receiving greater than  4 RBC units per 8 weeks) a statistically PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-35 significant improvement was seen with the addition of epoetin alfa (47% 
vs. 16%; P  = .04), suggesting that lenalidomide may restore sensitivity of 
MDS erythroid precursors to Epo.358 Another phase III trial also reported a 
significantly higher major erythroid response in patients  with lower -risk 
MDS lacking del(5q)  treated with 4  cycles of lenalidomide in conjunction 
with epoetin alfa compared to lenalidomide monotherapy (28.3% vs. 
11.5% ; P = .004).359 The median duration of the major erythroid response 
for the combinat ion treatment was 23.8 months versus  13.0 months for the 
lenalidomide arm.  
High -Intensity Therapy  
High-intensity therapy includes intensive induction chemotherapy or 
HCT.4,360 Although these approaches have the potential to change the 
natural history of the disease, there is an attendant greater risk of 
regimen- related morbidity and mortality. The Panel recommends that such 
treatments be given in the context of clinical trials. Comparative studies 
have not shown benefit between the different intensive chemotherapy 
regimens (including idarubicin- , cytarabine -, fludarabine- , and 
topotecan -based regimens) in MDS.361 
A high degree of multi -drug resistance occurs in marrow hematopoietic 
precursors from patients with advanced MDS362 and is associated with 
decreased responses and shorter response durations in patients treated with many of the standard chemotherapy induction regimens. Thus, 
chemotherapeutic agents used to treat “resistant -type” AML, and agents 
that modulate this resist ance, are now being evaluated for the treatment of 
patients with advanced MDS. Ongoing clinical trials evaluating multi -drug 
resistance modulators are important, as both positive
363,364 and negative365 
studies have been published.  
Allogeneic HCT from an HLA -matched sibling, unrelated donor , 
haploidentical donor, or cord blood donor is a preferred approach for treating select patients with MDS, particularly those with high- risk 
disease.366- 376 This includes both standard and RIC strategies.  
A multicenter study investigat ing the outcomes of  patients with IPSS i nt-2 
or high MDS who were eligible for RIC allo-transplant found a survival 
advantage for patients who underwent transplantation.377 At 3 years, an 
intention- to-treat analysis revealed that the adjusted OS rate in patients 
aged 50 to 75 years was 47.9% (95% CI, 41.3% –54.1%) and 26.6% (95% 
CI, 18.4% –35.6%; P = .0001) for those in the donor arm (expected to 
undergo reduced- intensity conditioning HCT, n = 260) and the no- donor 
arm (expected to receive HMA therapy or best supportive care, n = 124), respectively. In addition, at the same time point, the leukemia- free survival 
rate was 35.8% (95% CI, 29.8% –41.8%) versus  20.6% (95% CI, 13.3% –
29.1%; P = .003) , respectively. Subgroup analyses showed that there 
were no differences in outcomes by age ≤65 years  versus age >65 years . 
However, since ~34% of patients in both arms had disease that did not 
respond to HMAs , it is not surprising that the donor arm results appeared 
better.   
Another study  examined retrospectively the outcomes of patients with 
high- risk MDS or secondary AML who underwent transplantation without 
prior cytoreductive therapy  (n = 67)  compared to those who received 
cytoreductive therapy in the form of induction chemotherapy (n = 64) or 
HMAs (n = 34) prior to transplant ation.378 Patients had a blast count of 
≥5% in the bone marrow.  Reduced- intensity conditioning was applied 
before stem cell infusion in 68% of patients. Compared to the other groups, a higher percentage of patients in the HMA group (85%) were 
treated with a reduced- intensity conditioning regimen, which is likely due 
to the difference in age. Multivariate analyses revealed that the type of 
pretransplant treatment did not impact the OS, relapse- free survival ( RFS), 
and non- relapse mortality. However, cytogenetics, reduced- intensity 
conditioning and the use of an unrelated donor were found to be predictors PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-36 of negative outcomes. At 5 years, there was no difference in OS (61%, 
50%, and 45% respectively; P  = .116) and relapse- free survival (38%, 
41%, and 38% respectively; P  = .926) between the 3 groups. The OS ( P = 
.971) and RFS ( P = .883) were similar in patients with blasts < 10% or with 
blasts ≥10% in the bone marrow who underwent transplantation without 
prior cytoreductive therapy.  
A randomized trial in  patients with MDS or AML determined that 
myeloablative conditioning resulted in a higher rate of transplanted- related 
mortality at 4 years (25.1% vs. 9.9% for reduced -intensity conditioning; P  
< .001).379 However, as the risk of relapse is greater in those who received 
reduced- intensity conditioning (HR, 4.06; P  < .001), patients in the 
myeloablative conditioning arm fared better in terms of OS (HR, 1.54; P  = 
.03). 
Early referral for transplant evaluation is recommended to allow moving to 
transplant efficiently. Pre -transplant debulking therapy to reduce marrow  
blasts to < 5% blasts  with the goal of reducing post -transplant relapse is 
recommended, although the optimum strategy has not been determined. 
To reduce the disease burden pre- transplant is particularly important in 
patients who will receive a reduced -intensity conditioning regimen.339 At 
some centers, failure to achieve <5% blasts with cytoreduction did not 
preclude from proceeding to transplant, as these patients appeared to derive survival benefit from transplant.
377,378  
An argument in favor of pre- transplant cytoreduction was provided by 
Festuccia et al339 who showed that the presence of minimal identifiable 
disease (MID) prior to transplantation in patients with MDS or AML arising 
from MDS impacted prognosis following transplantation. In patients with 
MID positive by cytogenetics, irrespective of positivit y by flow cytometry, 
the overall mortality risk was higher in those who underwent low -intensity 
conditioning compared to those who underwent high- intensity conditioning. 
However, in patients with MID negative status, as determined by both cytogenetics and flow cytometry, the risk of mortality with low - and high -
intensity conditioning regimens was similar. It is important to note that this 
study did not specifically examine outcomes in patients who proceeded  to 
transplant without cytoreductive therapy. In patients with a MID positive 
status, as assessed by both cytogenetics and flow cytometry, the risk of 
relapse was higher in those who underwent low -intensity conditioning, as 
opposed to those who underwent high -intensity conditioning. As the MID 
classificati on can help to identify patient subgroups who may have better 
outcomes with high-  or low -intensity conditioning, the authors propose to 
consider the presence of MID to help determine the intensity of the 
conditioning regimen for patients being considered f or transplant.  
For higher -risk MDS, AzaC, decitabine, oral  decitabine and cedazuridine, 
or other therapies may be used as a bridge to transplantation. These 
agents should not be used to delay HCT in patients who have available 
donors. A clinical trial followed by allo -HCT is another option. In patients 
with disease relapse after a prolonged remission following the first 
transplant, a second transplant or donor lymphocyte infusion immun o-
based therapy may be considered. Allogeneic HCT may also be 
considered in select patie nts with lower -risk MDS (IPSS int -1, IPSS- R, and 
WPSS intermediate) with severe cytopenias. Whether transplants should 
be performed before or after patients achieve remission following induction 
chemotherapy has not been prospectively established.380 Comparative 
clinical trials are needed to address these issues.  
Targeted Therapy  
Some e merging data have shown efficacy of novel agents, including 
venetoclax in combination with HMA with or without ivosidenib to target 
mIDH1  in patients with myeloid malignancies including higher -risk 
MDS .381,382 When used as cytoreduction for MDS in combination with an 
HMA, venetoclax has been effectively given for 14 days in monthly 
courses.381 Repeating the bone marrow evaluation after 1 to 2 cycles is PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-37 important to clarify the recovery of hematopoiesis and potential 
requirement for further therapy.  
As overexpression of the BCL -2 protein has been linked to disease 
progression in MDS, studies are ongoing to investigate the efficacy and 
safety of venetoclax , a B-cell lymphoma 2 inhibitor,  in patients with higher -
risk MDS either first -line or refractory or resistant to HMAs .381,383 Abstract 
data from a phase Ib study investigating the combination of venetoclax 
and AzaC for 14 days in a 28- day cycle in upfront higher -risk MDS (IPSS-
R intermediate,  high, or very -high) resulted in an ORR , median OS, and 
median complete remission duration of 29.9 %, 26 months , and 16.6  
months.381 39.3% of patients subsequently underwent transplantation. 
The most frequent grade ≥3 TEAEs  were neutropenia ( 48.6%), 
thrombocytopenia (43.0%), febrile neutropenia ( 42.1%), and anemia 
(34.6%) . Phase I results from a study investigating the combination of 
venetoclax with AzaC in patients with high- risk MDS or chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia revealed an ORR of 82% in the HMA -naïve 
cohort and 100% in patients with relapsed/refractory disease follow ing 
HMA treatment.384 Neutropenia (39%), thrombocytopenia (39%), lung 
infection (30%), and febrile neutropenia (17%) were the most frequent 
grade 3– 4 TEAEs.  In another study, treatment with venetoclax in 
combination with AzaC  in patients with relapsed/refractory MDS , results 
showed a modified ORR of 39% and a median OS of 12.6 months .385 
Febrile neutropenia (34%), thrombocytopenia (32%), neutropenia (27%), 
and anemia (18%) were the most frequent grade ≥3 hematologic adverse 
events.  
Mutations in the isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 ( IDH1 ) or 2 ( IDH2 ) genes 
occur in approximately 4% to 12% of patients with MDS .386- 388 Substudy 
data from a phase I trial investigating the safety and efficacy of ivosidenib 
in 18 evaluable patients with relapsed or refractory MDS with m IDH 
demonstrated an ORR of 83.3%  and an approximate median OS of 36 months .389 Additionally, 71.4% and 75.0% of patients with RBC -TD and 
platelet transfusion- dependence, respectively, achieved transfusion 
independence. Grade 3 or higher TEAEs were fatigue and hyponatremia 
(5.3% each). Emerging data have also shown the utility of olutasidenib for 
treatment patients with IDH1  mutations.390 In one study, 33% of patients 
with intermediate -, high- , or very high- risk MDS treated with olutasidenib 
monotherapy achieved an overall response, while 69% of patients treated 
with olutasidenib and AzaC  achieved an overall response.  Cytopenias 
were the most commonly reported grade 3/4 TEAEs.  While not studied in 
MDS, the combination of ivosidenib and AzaC  has shown clinical benefit 
in patients with newly diagnosed mutant IDH1  (mIDH1 ) AML who were 
ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy.391 In a phase III trial, 
treatment with ivosidenib plus AzaC resulted in improved event -free 
survival (HR, 0.33; P = .002) and median OS (24.0 vs. 7.9 months; HR, 
0.44; P = .001), compared to treatment with placebo plus AzaC. Ongoing 
clinical trials are investigating the efficacy of targeted IDH1/2  inhibitors in 
patients with MDS (clinicaltrials.gov NCT03503409, NCT03471260, and NCT03744390).
382,392,393 
A phase II study in  patients with higher -risk IDH-2 mutated MDS 
determined an ORR and median OS  of 74% and 26 months , respectively, 
in newly diagnosed patients treated with enasidenib and AzaC , compared 
to 35% and 20 months , respectively, in patients who were previously 
treated with an HMA .394 Across both groups, the most frequent adverse 
events included neutropenia (40%), nausea (36%), and constipation 
(32%).  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-38 Recommended Treatment Approaches  
Therapy for Lower -Risk Disease (IPSS Low, Intermediate -1; IPSS -R 
Very Low, Low, Intermediate; or WPSS Very Low, Low, 
Intermediate)  
Regarding the therapeutic options for patients with lower -risk MDS  with 
clinically significant cytopenias, the NCCN Guidelines Panel recommends 
stratifying these patients into several groups . For patients without 
symptomatic anemia who have clinically relevant thrombocytopenia or neutropenia, recommended treatment options include a clinical trial, AzaC, 
decitabine, oral decitabine and cedazuridine, or IST, with or without 
eltrombopag (useful in certain circumstances) for select patients. IST is 
recommended for patients generally aged ≤60 years and with ≤5% 
marrow blasts, or those with hypocellular marrows, PNH clone positivity, 
or STAT -3 mutant cytotoxic T- cell clones. IST includes equine ATG, with 
or without cyclosporin A. Additionally, for severe thrombocytopenia, 
eltrombopag alone could be considered. Some studies have shown 
clinical benefit with low doses of AzaC or decitabine.395 If there is disease 
progression , no response following initial treatment,  or relapse,  
reevaluation with bone marrow and/or molecular testing is recommended. 
Additionally,  HMAs should be considered, if not previously used.  
Ivosidenib or olutasidenib are recommended for patients with m IDH1  MDS  
(category 2B).  Eltrombopag or romiplostim can be considered for patients 
with severe or refractory  thrombocytopenia.258,396,397 Subsequent treatment 
options include ivosidenib or olutasidenib (category 2B) for m IDH1  MDS if 
an IDH1 inhibitor was not previously used. In the absence of m IDH1 , a 
clinical trial as well as consideration of allogeneic HCT in select patients 
with lower -risk MDS (IPSS int -1, IPSS- R intermediate , and WPSS 
intermediate MDS) with severe cytopenias are recommended.  
For patients with del(5q) chromosomal abnormalities alone or with one 
other cytogenetic abnormality, except those involving chromosome 7, and 
symptomatic anemia , lenalidomide is a category 1 preferred option if sEPO is >500 mU/mL . If sEPO is ≤ 500 mU/mL, lenalidomide is a preferred 
regimen and epoetin alfa and darbepoetin alfa are other recommended 
regimens. An FDA -approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any  
recommended systemic biologic therapy in the NCCN Guidelines . Studies 
have shown the relative safety of lenalidomide in these patients and 
improved QOL outcomes in randomized clinical trials.398,399 The 
recommended initial dose of lenalidomide in this setting is 10 mg/day  for 
21 days, every 28 days, or 28 days monthly; response should be 
assessed 2 to 4 months after initiation of treatment. In patients with a 
clinically significant decrease in neutrophil or platelet counts, caution is 
required and may warrant either use of  a modified dose of lenalidomide.  In 
the previously discussed phase III trial with lenalidomide in patients with del(5q), patients with low neutrophil counts (<500 cells/mcL) or plat elet 
counts (<25,000 cells/mcL) were excluded from the study.
355 Patients with 
monosomy 7 are an exception and should be treated in the higher 
prognostic risk category. Exposure to lenalidomide has been associated 
with an elevated risk of TP53 -mutated clones.400 Additional consideration 
for and/or closer monitoring of particular patients is warranted . If no 
response is seen to lenalidomide or ESAs , or in cases of relapse  
(recurrence of symptomatic anemia or transfusion requirements) , 
patients with del(5q) chromosomal abnormalities alone or with one other 
cytogenetic abnormality, except those involving chromosome 7, and 
symptomatic anemia  should follow treatment options (with the exception of 
imetelstat) for patients without the del(5q) abnormality , with RS <15% (or 
RS <5% with an SF3B1  mutation) and with sEPO levels >500 mU/mL . 
(see Management of Lower -Risk Disease  in the algorithm) . Generally, 
reevaluation with bone marrow and/or molecular testing is recommended if 
there is no response, intolerance, or relapse.  
Patients without the del(5q) abnormality,  alone or with other cytogenetic 
abnormalit ies and with symptomatic anemia, are categorized based on  RS 
percentage and sEPO levels. In patients with no del(5q), with or without PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-39 other cytogenetic abnormalities, with RS ≥15%, or RS ≥5% with an 
SF3B1  mutation, luspatercept -aamt (category 1, preferred ) and 
imetelstat (if sEPO >500 mU/mL [ ineligible for ESAs ]) (other 
recommended)  are first-line options. Epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa may 
be considered if sEPO ≤200 mU/mL.401 The starting dose of 
luspatercept -aamt is 1 mg/kg every 3 weeks, which may be increased to 
1.33 mg/kg every 3 weeks if RBC transfusions are still needed after at 
least 2 consecutive doses (6 weeks) at the 1 mg/kg starting dose. The 
dose may be further incr eased to 1.75 mg/kg every 3 weeks if RBC 
transfusions are still needed after at least 2 consecutive doses (6 weeks) at the 1.33 mg/kg dose. The initial dosing of imetelstat is 7.1 mg/kg IV 
monthly with potential dose decrements since frequent transient thrombocytopenia and neutropenia may occur. The starting platelet and 
neutrophil levels should be ≥75,000 and ≥1500, respectively.
315 If there is 
no response by 3 to 6 months of treatment with luspatercept -aamt  or 
relapse,  and the sEPO level is ≤500 mU/mL, imetelstat (category 1, 
preferred ), as well as epoetin alfa with or without G -CSF (other 
recommended)  or darbepoetin alfa with or without G -CSF (other 
recommended) , are recommended options. If there is no response by 3 
to 6 months of treatment with luspatercept -aamt or relapse, and the 
sEPO level is >500 mU/mL, or if there is no response to first -line 
treatment with imetelstat or relapse, imetelstat (if not previously used), luspatercept -aamt  (category 1) (if not previously used) are preferred 
treatment options.  Consideration of lenalidomide is another 
recommended option.  
The epoetin alfa dose required is 40,000 to 60,000 SC units 1 to 2 times 
per week. Darbepoetin alfa should be given subcutaneously at a dose of 
150 to 300 mcg every other week. For a lack of response, the dose may 
be escalated. At some NCCN member institutions, darbepoeti n alfa has 
been given at doses up to 500 mcg every other week. Erythroid responses 
generally occur within 6 to 8 weeks of treatment.
298,402- 404 A prompter response may be obtained with a higher starting dose. The above -
recommended dose for epoetin alfa is much higher than the dose needed 
to treat renal causes of anemia wherein marrow responsiveness would be relatively normal. However, if a response occurs at the higher dose, the 
recommendation is to attempt a decrease to the lowest effective dose. 
Evidence suggests that G -CSF (and, to a lesser extent, GM -CSF) has 
synergistic erythropoietic activity when used in combination and markedly enhances the erythroid response rates due to enhanced survival of red 
cell precursors.
298,402,403,405 This is particularly evident for patients with RS 
≥15% in the marrow (and sE PO level ≤500 mU/mL), as the very low 
response rates to epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alone in this subgroup are 
markedly enhanced when combined with G -CSF.298,403 For the erythroid 
synergistic effect, relatively low doses of G -CSF are needed to help 
normalize the neutrophil count in patients who initially have neutropenia or 
to double the neutrophil count in patients who do not initially have 
neutropenia. For this purpose, an average of 1 to 2 mcg/kg SC G -CSF is 
administered either daily or 1 to 2 times per week.298,402,403,405 
If there is no response after 6 to 8 weeks of treatment with ESAs (with or 
without G -CSF) or after 3 to 6 months of imetelstat , luspatercept -aamt  or 
lenalidomide,  or if relapse occurs,  clinical trial or one of the following are 
recommended : AzaC (preferred), ivosidenib if mIDH1  (other 
recommended),  olutasidenib if m IDH1  (category 2B, other recommended),  
decitabine (other recommended), imetelstat if not previously used (other 
recommended), oral decitabine and cedazuridine (other recommended), 
consideration of lenalidomide (useful in certain circumstances) , or ATG 
with cyclosporin A with or without eltrombopag (ATG may be omitted when 
clinically indicated). If there is no response to ATG with cyclosporin A with 
or without eltrombopag within 3 to 6 months or intolerance or relapse, 
patients should follow the treatment pathway for serum EPO >500 mU/mL 
(poor probability to respond to IST) . If there is no response within 6 cycles 
of AzaC , or 4 cycles of decitabine or oral decitabine and cedazuridine,  no PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-40 response to imetelstat or lenalidomide,  or intolerance or relapse  following 
treatment with these regimens , ivosidenib or olutasidenib (category 2B)  
are recommended for m IDH1  MDS  if an IDH1 inhibitor was not previously 
used. A clinical trial or consideration of HCT for select patients are 
recommended for patients without m IDH1 . 
Epoetin alfa,  darbepoetin alfa or luspatercept -aamt  are preferred options 
for patients with no del(5q), with or without other cytogenetic 
abnormalities, with RS  <15% (or RS <5% with an SF3B1  mutation) and 
sEPO ≤500 mU/mL. Patients with normal cytogenetics, RS <15%, and 
sEPO levels of ≤500 mU/mL may respond to Epo if relatively high doses 
are administered.246,405,406 Iron repletion needs to be verified before 
instituting epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa therapy. If no response occurs 
after 6  to 8 weeks  with ESAs alone (despite adequate iron stores) , or after 
3 to 6 months with luspatercept -aamt, or if relapse occurs , treatment with 
imetelstat (category 1, preferred), luspatercept if not previously used (preferred),  epoetin alfa with or without G -CSF or lenalidomide (other 
recommended)  or darbepoetin alfa with or without G -CSF or lenalidomide 
(other recommended) are rec ommended  
If no response occurs following subsequent treatment with ESAs, with or 
without lenalidomide or G -CSF, within 6 to 8 weeks of treatment, or 
following subsequent treatment with imetelstat or luspatercept -aamt  within 
3 to 6 months of treatment,  or if relapse occurs,  treatment should be 
discontinued. Patients should follow treatment options for patients without 
the del(5q) abnormality, with sEPO > 500 mU/mL, and with poor probability 
to respond to IST (see Management of Lower -Risk Disease  in the 
algorithm). Imetelstat (category 1, preferred), if not previously used, 
ivosidenib if mIDH1  (useful in certain circumstances), and olutasidenib if  
mIDH1  (category 2B, useful in certain circumstances)  are also options . A 
validated decision model has been developed for predicting erythroid 
responses to Epo plus G -CSF based on the patient’s basal sE PO level and number of previous RBC transfusions.
403,407 This cytokine treatment is 
not suggested for patients with endogenous sE PO levels >500 mU/mL 
due to the very low erythroid response rate to these drugs in this patient 
population.   
Patients with symptomatic anemia with no del(5q), with or without other 
cytogenetic abnormalities, with RS <15% (or RS <5% with an SF3B1  
mutation) and sE PO levels >500 mU/mL should be evaluated to determine 
whether they would be good candidates for IST (generally ≤60 years and 
with ≤5% marrow blasts, or with hypocellular marrows, P NH clone 
positivity, or STAT3 -mutant cytotoxic T- cell clones) . For patients with 
disease that has a good probability to respond to IST, ATG plus 
cyclosporin A, with or without eltrombopag, is recommended. ATG may be 
omitted when clinically indicated. If there is no response within 3 to 6 
months, intolerance, or relaps e, or if the patients have disease that has a 
poor probability to respond to IST, a clinical trial, treatment with AzaC (preferred), decitabine (other recommended), imetelstat if not previously 
used (other recommended), oral decitabine and cedazuridine (other 
recommended), or consideration of lenalidomide (useful in certain 
circumstances), are recommended. Oral decitabine and cedazuridine 
could be a substitution for IV decitabine in patients with IPSS 
Intermediate -1 and above.
332 A phase II prospective study of patients with 
MDS, that is IPSS low or int -1, with symptomatic anemia with disease that 
was not expected to respond or that failed to respond to Epo, showed that 
5-day AzaC courses were well -tolerated.408 Although neutropenia and 
thrombocytopenia were adverse events (47% and 19% of patients, 
respectively), these toxicities were transient. Other non -hematologic 
toxicities were mild. AzaC treatment was effective in 60% of patients in the study.  In addition,  3-day cycles of HMAs have also been beneficial for 
patients  with lower -risk MDS with anemia .
395 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-41 If there is no response within 6 cycles of AzaC  or 4 cycles of decitabine 
or oral decitabine and cedaz uridine , no response to imetelstat or 
lenalidomide, or in cases of intolerance or relapse, ivosidenib or 
olutasidenib (category 2B) are recommended for m IDH1  MDS if an IDH1 
inhibitor was not previously used.  A clinical trial or consideration of HCT 
for select patients are recommended  for patients without m IDH1 . 
Emerging data are demonstrating effectiveness of enasidenib for patients with MDS with IDH2  mutations
409 (see Targeted Therapy ). 
While these guidelines provide a framework in which to treat patients with 
MDS, careful monitoring for disease progression and consideration of the 
patient’s preferences remain major factors in the decision and timing of the 
treatment regimen initiated.  
Therapy for Higher -Risk Disease (IPSS Intermediate -2, High; IPSS -R 
Intermediate, High, Very High; or WPSS High, Very High)  
HMA therapy is the standard of care for patients with higher -risk MDS , 
preferably as a bridge to HCT in eligible patients . Treatment  for higher -risk 
disease is dependent on whether patients  are possible candidates for 
intensive therapy (eg, allogeneic HCT, intensive chemotherapy). Clinical 
features relevant for this determination include patient age  (including 
patients up to 75 years of age ), performance status, absence of major 
comorbid conditions, psychosocial status, patient preference,  and 
availability of a suitable donor and caregiver. Patients may be taken immediately to transplant or bridging therapy can be used to decrease 
marrow blasts to an acceptable level prior to transplant.
377 The patient’s 
personal preference for type of therapy needs particular consideration. 
Regardless, supportive care should be provided for all patients.  Intensive Therapy  
Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation  
Allogeneic HCT is recommended for eligible patients. Treatment with 
AzaC with ivosidenib (if m IDH1 ) (category 2B), AzaC with olutasidenib (if 
mIDH1 ) (category 2B), or enrollment in a clinical trial prior to allogeneic 
HCT; HMAs (AzaC, decitabine, or oral decitabine and cedazuridine) with 
or without venetoclax; and high- intensity chemotherapy are also options. 
Oral decitabine and cedazuridine could be a substitution for IV decitabine 
in patients with IPSS Intermediate -1 and above.332 The addition of 
venetoclax is based on patient status and tolerance. Single -agent 
ivosidenib, single- agent olutasidenib (category 2B), or AzaC  in 
combination with olutasidenib (category 2B) followed by allo -HCT may 
be considered for m IDH1  MDS if there is no response following 
treatment with HMAs with or without venetoclax or high- intensity 
chemotherapy.  Allo-HCT is recommended if there is no response to 
HMAs with or without venetoclax or high -intensity chemotherapy and in 
the absence of mIDH1 or following a response, although most centers 
require evidence of response to HMAs if blast counts are >10% prior to 
proceeding to allo -HCT. However, at so me centers, failure to achieve 
<5% blasts with cytoreduction should not preclude patients from 
proceeding to transplant, as these patients appeared to derive survival 
benefit from transplant.377,378 For patients who are transplant candidates, 
an HLA -matched sibling or HLA -matched unrelated donor can be 
considered. Res ults with HLA -matched unrelated donors have improved to 
levels comparable to those obtained with HLA -matched siblings. With the 
increasing use of cord blood or HLA -haploidentical related donors, HCT 
has become a viable option for many patients. High- dose conditioning is  
typically used for younger patients, whereas RIC for HCT is generally the strategy in older individuals.
410 
To aid therapeutic decision- making regarding the timing and selection of 
patients with MDS for HCT, a study compared outcomes with PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-42 HLA-matched sibling HCT in patients with MDS ≤60 years of age  to data 
in patients with MDS who did not undergo transplantation from the 
IMRAW/IPSS database.411 Using a Markov decision analysis, this 
investigation indicated that patients with IPSS int -2 and high- risk MDS  ≤60 
years of age  had the longest life expectancy if transplanted (from 
HLA-identical siblings) soon after diagnosis, whereas patients with IPSS 
low risk MDS had the best outlook if HCT was delayed until MDS 
progressed. For patients in the int -1–risk group, there was only a slight 
gain in life expectancy if HCT was delayed; therefore, decisions should be 
made on an individual basis (eg, dependent on platelet or neutrophil 
counts).411 A retrospective study evaluated the impact of the WHO 
classification and WPSS on the outcome of patients who underwent allogeneic HCT.
205 The data suggest that patients with lower -risk MDS  
(based on WPSS risk score) do very well following allogeneic HCT, with a 
5-year OS of 80%. With increasing WPSS scores, the probability of 5 -year 
survival after HCT declined progressively to 65% (intermediate risk), 40% 
(high risk), and 15% (very high risk ).205 
Based on data regarding RIC for transplantation from two studies412,413 and 
two comprehensive reviews of the field,414,415 patient age and disease 
status generally dictated the type of conditioning. Patients > 55 or 65 years  
of age , particularly if they had <10% marrow myeloblasts, generally 
received RIC; if the blast count was high, pre- HCT debulking therapy was 
often given. Younger patients, regardless of marrow blast burden, most frequently received high- dose conditioning. Variations on these 
approaches would be considered by the individual transplant physician based on patient features and the specific regimen used at that center. 
Some general recommendations have been presented in a review article.
416 
There are limited data regarding the use of allogeneic HCT in older adults with MDS; however, studies suggest that age alone should not be an exclusionary factor for eligibility. In a prospective allogeneic transplant trial 
using nonmyeloablative conditioning, 372 patients between ages 60 and 
75 years with hematologic malignancies (AML, MDS, chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple m yeloma) were shown to have no 
association between age and non -relapse mortality, OS, and PFS.
417 The 
study supports the use of comorbidities and disease status, rather than 
age alone, as criteria for determining the eligibility of patients for 
allogeneic HCT.  
Other retrospective studies have also evaluated transplant -related 
mortality in older patients with MDS receiving RIC for allogeneic 
transplant.418,419 No increase in mortality was seen in either study. In a 
retrospective analysis of 514 patients with de novo MDS (aged 60– 70 
years), RIC allogeneic transplants were not associated with improved life 
expectancy for patients with low or int -1 IPSS MDS compar ed to other 
non-transplant therapies. However, a potential improvement in life 
expectancy was seen in patients with int -2– or high -risk IPSS MDS.420 It is 
recognized that there are even fewer data available in regard to patients 
who are >75 years of age.  
Intensive Chemotherapy  
For patients eligible for intensive therapy but lacking a donor 
hematopoietic cell source, or for patients in whom the marrow blast count 
requires reduction, consideration should be given to the use of intensive 
induction chemotherapy.421 Although the response rate and durability are 
lower than for standard AML, this treatment (particularly in clinical trials with novel agents) could be beneficial in some patients. For patients with a 
potential hematopoietic cell donor who require reduction of tumor burden 
(ie, to decrease the marrow blast count), achievement of even a partial 
remission may be sufficient to permit the HCT.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-43 Relapse after allo- HCT or No Response  
Reevaluation with bone marrow and/or molecular testing is recommended 
following relapse after allo- HCT or if there is no response. In patients with 
disease relapse after a prolonged remission following the first transplant or 
with no response, a second transplant or donor lymphocyte infusion 
immuno- based therapy may be consi dered. Enrollment in a clinical trial or 
HMAs (AzaC, decitabine, oral decitabine and cedazuridine) are also options. If there is no response to treatment or the disease relapses, 
enrollm ent in a clinical trial or supportive care is recommended.  
Non-Intensive Therapy 
For patients with higher -risk MDS who are not candidates for intensive 
therapy  or allogeneic HCT , the use of AzaC (category 1) with or without 
venetoclax, decitabine with or without venetoclax, oral decitabine and 
cedazuridine with or without venetoclax, ivosidenib (category 2B) with or 
without AzaC  (if mIDH1 ) (category 2B), or olutasidenib with AzaC  (if 
mIDH1 ) (category 2B) are recommended. AzaC  with or without 
venetoclax is a preferred regimen while the others are listed as other 
recommended regimens. Oral decitabine and cedazuridine could be a 
substitution for IV decitabine in patients with IPSS Intermediate- 1 and 
above.332 Enrollment in a clinical trial is also an option for these patients. 
The addition of venetoclax is based on patient status and tolerance. If 
there is no response, intolerance, or relapse, reevaluation with bone 
marrow and/or molecular testing is recommende d. Ivosidenib or 
olutasidenib (category 2B), if an m IDH1  inhibitor was not previously 
used, is recommended for m IDH1  MDS  if there is no response within 6 
cycles of AzaC  or 4 cycles of decitabine or oral decitabine and 
cedazuridine,  intolerance , or relapse. Enrollment in a clinical trial is 
recommended if there is no response or relapse following treatment with 
ivosidenib or olutasidenib within 3 to 6 months or for those without 
mIDH1 . In a phase III, international, multicenter, controlled, open -label study  
(AZA- 001), 358 patients with higher -risk MDS  were randomly assigned 
1:1 to receive AzaC  (75 mg/m2 daily for 7 days every 28 days) or 
conventional care (best supportive care, low -dose cytarabine, or 
intensive chemotherapy.316 With a median follow -up of 21.1 months 
(interquartile range [ IQR], 15.1–26.9), treatment with AzaC  led to a 
higher median OS (24.5 months [ 9.9 months –not reached] ) when 
compared to conventional care (15.0 months [ 5.6–24.1 months ]; HR, 
0.58; 95% CI , 0.43–0.77; P = .0001). At 2 years, 50.8% (95% CI , 42.1% –
58.8%) of patients receiving AzaC  were alive compared with 26.2% 
(18.7% –34.3%) of patients receiving conventional care group ( P < 
.0001). The most frequent grade 3– 4 adverse events for all treatments  
were peripheral cytopenias . These data demonstrated that  treatment 
with AzaC  increased OS in patients with higher -risk MDS  relative to 
conventional care.  
Results from a phase III trial comparing decitabine to BSC in patients with 
higher -risk disease who were ineligible for intensive chemotherapy 
demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in PFS and reduced 
AML transformation; improvements in OS and AML- free survivals were 
also seen, al though they did not reach statistical significance.317 AzaC , 
decitabine, or oral decitabine and cedazuridine should be continued for a 
least 6 cycles of AzaC or 4  cycles of decitabine or oral decitabine and 
cedazuridine to assess response to these agents. For patients who show 
clinical benefit, treatment with HMAs should be continued as maintenance 
therapy.  
Two further  reports from the phase III, international, multicenter, 
randomized AZA -001 trial have evaluated AzaC compared to conventional 
care regimens (CCR) in patients with higher -risk MDS. Patients 
randomized to the CCR group received the most appropriate of the th ree 
protocol -specified CCR options, including AzaC, intensive chemotherapy, PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-44 or BSC.422,423 The OS was increased with AzaC treatment compared to 
CCR (HR, 0.58; 95% CI, 0.43 –0.77; P < .001), and a greater number of 
patients achieved hematologic improvement (49% vs. 29%; P  < .0001).422 
The earlier report from the same trial showed improved OS and tolerability 
in patients aged ≥75 years with good performance status.423 It should be 
noted that, to date, no head- to-head trials have compared AzaC with 
decitabine. Therefore, the P anel preferentially recommends AzaC 
(category 1) versus decitabine or oral decitabine and cedazuridine based on data from the  phase III trial that showed superior median survival with 
AzaC compared to BSC.  
Supportive Care Only  
For patients with adverse clinical features or disease progression despite therapy and the absence of reasonable specific anti -tumor therapy, 
adequate supportive care should be maintained.  
Summary  
The NCCN Guidelines are based on extensive evaluation of the reviewed risk-based data and indicate current approaches for with the management 
of MDS. Drugs approved by the FDA for treating specific patients with  
MDS include lenalidomide for patients with del(5q) cytogenetic 
abnormalities; AzaC , decitabine, or the oral combination of decitabine and 
cedazuridine for treating higher -risk MDS or MDS that is non-responsive; 
deferasirox and deferoxamine for iron chelation in the treatment of iron 
overload; luspatercept -aamt  for treating MDS  with RS in those with no 
response to prior ESA treatment or for treating lower -risk MDS ; imetelstat 
for treating lower -risk MDS in patients with no response or loss of 
response to ES As for those who are ineligible for ESAs; and ivosidenib for 
relapsed or refractory mIDH1 MDS . However, as a substantial proportion 
of subsets of patients with MDS  lack or lose effective treatment for their 
cytopenias or for altering the natural history of the disease, clinical trials 
with these and other novel therapeutic agents, along with supportive care, are critical for disease management . Additionally, supportive care 
measures should be offered to these patients, including relevant 
transfusions, antibiotics, and psychosocial support as well as QOL considerations.  Evaluating the role of thrombopoietic cytokines for the 
management of thrombocytopenia in MDS and determining the  effects of 
therapeutic interventions on QOL are important issues needing 
investigation.
402,404,407,424,425 Progress toward improving the management of 
MDS has occurred over the past few years and more advances are anticipated with these guidelines providing a framework for coordination of 
comparative clinical trials.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-45 References  
1. Beck DB, Ferrada MA, Sikora KA, et al. Somatic mutations in UBA1 and 
severe adult -onset autoinflammatory disease. N Engl J Med 
2020;383:2628 -2638. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33108101 . 
2. National Cancer Institute. SEER cancer statistics review 1975- 2016: 
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), chronic myeloproliferative disorders 
(CMD), and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). 2020. Available 
at: 
https://seer.cancer.gov/csr/1975_2016/browse_csr.php?sectionSEL=30&p
ageSEL=sect_30_intro.01. Accessed January 8, 2020.  
3. Zeidan AM, Shallis RM, Wang R, et al. Epidemiology of myelodysplastic 
syndromes: Why characterizing the beast is a prerequisite to taming it. 
Blood Rev 2019;34:1- 15. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30314642 . 
4. Greenberg P. The myelodysplastic syndromes. In: Hoffman R, Benz E, 
Shattil S, et al, eds. Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice. 3rd ed. 
New York: Churchill Livingstone; 2000;1106 -1129.  
5. PubMed Overview. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/ . 
Accessed January 4, 2022.  
6. Freedman -Cass DA, Fischer T, Alpert AB, et al. The value and process 
of inclusion: Using sensitive, respectful, and inclusive language and 
images in NCCN content. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2023;21:434- 441. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37156485.  
7. Kaloutsi V, Kohlmeyer U, Maschek H, et al. Comparison of bone marrow and hematologic findings in patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus infection and those with myelodysplastic 
syndromes and infectious diseases. Am J Clin Pathol 1994;101:123- 129. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8116565.  
8. Khoury JD, Solary E, Abla O, et al. The 5th edition of the World Health 
Organization classification of haematolymphoid tumours: Myeloid and histiocytic/dendritic neoplasms. Leukemia 2022;36:1703- 1719. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35732831.  
9. Arber DA, Orazi A, Hasserjian RP, et al. International Consensus 
Classification of myeloid neoplasms and acute leukemias: Integrating 
morphologic, clinical, and genomic data. Blood 2022;140:1200 -1228. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35767897.  
10. Valent P, Horny HP, Bennett JM, et al. Definitions and standards in the 
diagnosis and treatment of the myelodysplastic syndromes: Consensus 
statements and report from a working conference. Leuk Res 2007;31:727-
736. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17257673 . 
11. Arber DA, Orazi A, Hasserjian R, et al. The 2016 revision to the World 
Health Organization (WHO) classification of myeloid neoplasms and acute 
leukemia. Blood 2016;127:2391- 2405. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27069254 . 
12. Greenberg PL, Tuechler H, Schanz J, et al. Cytopenia levels for aiding 
establishment of the diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndromes. Blood 
2016;128:2096 -2097. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27535995 . 
13. Brunning R, Bennett J, Flandrin G, et al. Myelodysplastic syndromes. 
In: Jaffe E, Harris N, Stein H, et al, eds. WHO Classification of Tumours: 
Pathology and Genetics of Haematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues. Lyon: 
IARC Press 2001;61 -73. 
14. Harris NL, Jaffe ES, Diebold J, et al. World Health Organization 
classification of neoplastic diseases of the hematopoietic and lymphoid 
tissues: report of the Clinical Advisory Committee meeting- Airlie House, 
Virginia, November 1997. J Clin Oncol 1999 ;17:3835- 3849. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10577857 . 
15. Vardiman JW, Harris NL, Brunning RD. The World Health Organization 
(WHO) classification of the myeloid neoplasms. Blood 2002;100:2292 -
2302. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12239137 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-46 16. Greenberg P, Cox C, LeBeau MM, et al. International scoring system 
for evaluating prognosis in myelodysplastic syndromes. Blood 
1997;89:2079 -2088. Erratum. Blood 1998;2091:1100. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9058730 . 
17. Schanz J, Tuchler H, Sole F, et al. New comprehensive cytogenetic scoring system for primary myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and 
oligoblastic acute myeloid leukemia after MDS derived from an 
international database merge. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:820- 829. A vailable at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22331955 . 
18. Germing U, Lauseker M, Hildebrandt B, et al. Survival, prognostic factors and rates of leukemic transformation in 381 untreated patients with 
MDS and del(5q): a multicenter study. Leukemia 2012;26:1286 -1292. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22289990.  
19. Mallo M, Cervera J, Schanz J, et al. Impact of adjunct cytogenetic 
abnormalities for prognostic stratification in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndrome and deletion 5q. Leukemia 2011;25:110- 120. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20882045 . 
20. Arber DA, Brunning RD, Orazi A, et al. Acute myeloid leukaemia with 
myelodysplastia- related changes. In Swerdlow, SH, Campo, E, Harris, NL, 
et al. WHO Classification of Tumours of Haematopoietic and Lymphoid 
Tissues. 4th ed. Lyon: IARC Press; 2008:124 -126. 
21. Hasserjian RP, Campigotto F, Klepeis V, et al. De novo acute myeloid 
leukemia with 20 -29% blasts is less aggressive than acute myeloid 
leukemia with ≥30% blasts in older adults: a Bone Marrow Pathology Group study. Am J Hematol 2014;89:E193- 199. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25042343 . 
22. Albitar M, Manshouri T, Shen Y, et al. Myelodysplastic syndrome is not merely "preleukemia". Blood 2002;100:791- 798. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12130488 . 
23. Greenberg P, Anderson J, de Witte T, et al. Problematic WHO 
reclassification of myelodysplastic syndromes. Members of the International MDS Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:3447 -3452. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11013289.  
24. Estey E, Hasserjian RP, Dohner H. Distinguishing AML from MDS: A 
fixed blast percentage may no longer be optimal. Blood 2022;139:323 -
332. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34111285 . 
25. DiNardo CD, Garcia -Manero G, Kantarjian HM. Time to blur the blast 
boundaries. Cancer 2022;128:1568 -1570. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35133004 . 
26. Germing U, Gattermann N, Strupp C, et al. Validation of the WHO proposals for a new classification of primary myelodysplastic syndromes: a 
retrospective analysis of 1600 patients. Leuk Res 2000;24:983 -992. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11077111.  
27. Germing U, Strupp C, Kuendgen A, et al. Refractory anaemia with 
excess of blasts (RAEB): analysis of reclassification according to the WHO 
proposals. Br J Haematol 2006;132:162 -167. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16398650 . 
28. Germing U, Strupp C, Kuendgen A, et al. Prospective validation of the 
WHO proposals for the classification of myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Haematologica 2006;91:1596- 1604. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17145595 . 
29. Malcovati L, Porta MG, Pascutto C, et al. Prognostic factors and life 
expectancy in myelodysplastic syndromes classified according to WHO 
criteria: a basis for clinical decision making. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:7594-
7603. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16186598 . 
30. Muller -Berndorff H, Haas PS, Kunzmann R, et al. Comparison of five 
prognostic scoring systems, the French- American -British (FAB) and World 
Health Organization (WHO) classifications in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes: Results of a single- center analysis. Ann Hematol 
2006;85:502 -513. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16715299 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-47 31. List A, Dewald G, Bennett J, et al. Lenalidomide in the myelodysplastic 
syndrome with chromosome 5q deletion. N Engl J Med 2006;355:1456-
1465. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17021321 . 
32. Taskesen E, Havermans M, van Lom K, et al. Two splice- factor mutant 
leukemia subgroups uncovered at the boundaries of MDS and AML using 
combined gene expression and DNA -methylation profiling. Blood 
2014;123:3327 -3335. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24668493 . 
33. Lindsley RC, Mar BG, Mazzola E, et al. Acute myeloid leukemia 
ontogeny is defined by distinct somatic mutations. Blood 2015;125:1367-
1376. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25550361 . 
34. Swerdlow SH, Campo E, Harris NL, et al.: WHO Classification of 
Tumours of Haematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues. 4th ed. Lyon: IARC 
Press; 2008.  
35. Meggendorfer M, Roller A, Haferlach T, et al. SRSF2 mutations in 275 
cases with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). Blood 
2012;120:3080 -3088. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22919025 . 
36. Valent P, Orazi A, Savona MR, et al. Proposed diagnostic criteria for classical chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), CMML variants and 
pre-CMML conditions. Haematologica 2019;104:1935- 1949. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31048353 . 
37. Onida F, Barosi G, Leone G, et al. Management recommendations for 
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia: consensus statements from the SIE, 
SIES, GITMO groups. Haematologica 2013;98:1344- 1352. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24006407 . 
38. Ades L, Sekeres MA, Wolfromm A, et al. Predictive factors of response 
and survival among chronic myelomonocytic leukemia patients treated 
with azacitidine. Leuk Res 2013;37:609- 613. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23415110 . 39. Hunter AM, Zhang L, Padron E. Current management and recent advances in the treatment of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Curr Treat 
Options Oncol 2018;19:67. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30367269 . 
40. Padron E, Komrokji R, List AF. The clinical management of chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol 2014;12:172 -178. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24927265.  
41. Santini V, Allione B, Zini G, et al. A phase II, multicentre trial of decitabine in higher -risk chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Leukemia 
2018;32:413 -418. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28607470 . 
42. Padron E, Dezern A, Andrade- Campos M, et al. A multi -institution 
phase I trial of ruxolitinib in patients with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia 
(CMML). Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:3746- 3754. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26858309 . 
43. de Witte T, Bowen D, Robin M, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation for MDS and CMML: recommendations from an 
international expert panel. Blood 2017;129:1753- 1762. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28096091 . 
44. Eissa H, Gooley TA, Sorror ML, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplantation for chronic myelomonocytic leukemia: relapse- free survival 
is determined by karyotype and comorbidities. Biol Blood Marrow 
Transplant 2011;17:908- 915. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20932924 . 
45. Padron E, Tinsley -Vance S, DeZern AE, et al. Efficacy and safety of 
ruxolitinib for treatment of symptomatic chronic myelomonocytic leukemia 
(CMML): Results of a multicenter phase II clinical trial [abstract]. Blood 
2022;140:1101 -1103. Available at: 
https://ashpublications.org/blood/article/140/Supplement%201/1101/49195
8/Efficacy -and-Safety -of-Ruxolitinib -for-Treatment . 
46. Apperley JF, Gardembas M, Melo JV, et al. Response to imatinib mesylate in patients with chronic myeloproliferative diseases with PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-48 rearrangements of the platelet -derived growth factor receptor beta. N Engl 
J Med 2002;347:481 -487. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12181402 . 
47. Cheah CY, Burbury K, Apperley JF, et al. Patients with myeloid 
malignancies bearing PDGFRB fusion genes achieve durable long -term 
remissions with imatinib. Blood 2014;123:3574 -3577. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24687085 . 
48. Gotlib J, Kluin- Nelemans HC, George TI, et al. Efficacy and safety of 
midostaurin in advanced systemic mastocytosis. N Engl J Med 
2016;374:2530 -2541. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27355533 . 
49. Sotlar K, Fridrich C, Mall A, et al. Detection of c -kit point mutation Asp-
816 --> Val in microdissected pooled single mast cells and leukemic cells 
in a patient with systemic mastocytosis and concomitant chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia. Leuk Res 2002; 26:979 -984. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12363464 . 
50. Gotlib J, Maxson JE, George TI, Tyner JW. The new genetics of chronic neutrophilic leukemia and atypical CML: implications for diagnosis 
and treatment. Blood 2013;122:1707 -1711. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23896413 . 
51. Wang SA, Hasserjian RP, Fox PS, et al. Atypical chronic myeloid 
leukemia is clinically distinct from unclassifiable 
myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms. Blood 2014;123:2645-
2651. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24627528 . 
52. Gambacorti -Passerini CB, Donadoni C, Parmiani A, et al. Recurrent 
ETNK1 mutations in atypical chronic myeloid leukemia. Blood 
2015;125:499 -503. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25343957 . 
53. Meggendorfer M, Bacher U, Alpermann T, et al. SETBP1 mutations 
occur in 9% of MDS/MPN and in 4% of MPN cases and are strongly 
associated with atypical CML, monosomy 7, isochromosome i(17)(q10), ASXL1 and CBL mutations. Leukemia 2013;27:1852- 1860. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23628959 . 
54. Mughal TI, Cross NC, Padron E, et al. An International MDS/MPN 
Working Group's perspective and recommendations on molecular 
pathogenesis, diagnosis and clinical characterization of 
myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms. Haematologica 
2015;100:1117 -1130. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26341525 . 
55. Piazza R, Valletta S, Winkelmann N, et al. Recurrent SETBP1 mutations in atypical chronic myeloid leukemia. Nat Genet 2013;45:18 -24. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23222956.  
56. Linder K, Iragavarapu C, Liu D. SETBP1 mutations as a biomarker for 
myelodysplasia /myeloproliferative neoplasm overlap syndrome. Biomark 
Res 2017;5:33. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29225884 . 
57. Dao KT, Tyner JW, Gotlib J. Recent progress in chronic neutrophilic 
leukemia and atypical chronic myeloid leukemia. Curr Hematol Malig Rep 
2017;12:432 -441. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28983816 . 
58. Gotlib J. How I treat atypical chronic myeloid leukemia. Blood 
2017;129:838 -845. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27899359 . 
59. Tong X, Li J, Zhou Z, et al. Efficacy and side- effects of decitabine in 
treatment of atypical chronic myeloid leukemia. Leuk Lymphoma 
2015;56:1911 -1913. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25426665 . 
60. Assi R, Kantarjian HM, Garcia- Manero G, et al. A phase II trial of 
ruxolitinib in combination with azacytidine in myelodysplastic 
syndrome/myeloproliferative neoplasms. Am J Hematol 2018;93:277- 285. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29134664.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-49 61. Kanagal -Shamanna R, Hodge JC, Tucker T, et al. Assessing copy 
number aberrations and copy neutral loss of heterozygosity across the 
genome as best practice: An evidence based review of clinical utility from 
the cancer genomics consortium (CGC) working group for myelodysplastic 
syndrome, myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative and myeloproliferative 
neoplasms. Cancer Genet 2018;228- 229:197- 217. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30377088 . 
62. Lim SN, Lee JH, Lee JH, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplantation in adult patients with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative 
neoplasms. Blood Res 2013;48:178 -184. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24086937 . 
63. Vardiman JW, Bennett JM, Bain BJ, et al. 
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm, unclassifiable. In: Swerdlow, 
SH, Campo, E, Harris, NL, et al. WHO Classification of Tumours of 
Haematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues. 4th ed. Lyon: IARC Press; 
2008;85- 86. 
64. Papaemmanuil E, Cazzola M, Boultwood J, et al. Somatic SF3B1 
mutation in myelodysplasia with ring sideroblasts. N Engl J Med 
2011;365:1384 -1395. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21995386 . 
65. Malcovati L, Papaemmanuil E, Bowen DT, et al. Clinical significance of 
SF3B1 mutations in myelodysplastic syndromes and 
myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms. Blood 2011;118:6239-
6246. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21998214 . 
66. Bejar R, Stevenson KE, Caughey BA, et al. Validation of a prognostic 
model and the impact of mutations in patients with lower -risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:3376- 3382. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22869879 . 
67. Cazzola M, Rossi M, Malcovati L, Associazione Italiana per la Ricerca 
sul Cancro Gruppo Italiano Malattie Mieloproliferative. Biologic and clinical 
significance of somatic mutations of SF3B1 in myeloid and lymphoid 
neoplasms. Blood 2013;121:260- 269. Av ailable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23160465 . 68. Patnaik MM, Tefferi A. Refractory anemia with ring sideroblasts 
(RARS) and RARS with thrombocytosis: "2019 Update on Diagnosis, Risk -
stratification, and Management". Am J Hematol 2019;94:475 -488. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30618061.  
69. Huls G, Mulder AB, Rosati S, et al. Efficacy of single- agent 
lenalidomide in patients with JAK2 (V617F) mutated refractory anemia with ring sideroblasts and thrombocytosis. Blood 2010;116:180 -182. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20194893.  
70. Nicolosi M, Mudireddy M, Vallapureddy R, et al. Lenalidomide therapy 
in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome/myeloproliferative neoplasm 
with ring sideroblasts and thrombocytosis (MDS/MPN -RS-T). Am J 
Hematol 2018;93:E27 -E30. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29067707 . 
71. Komrokji RS, Platzbecker U, Fenaux P, et al. Luspatercept for 
myelodysplastic syndromes/myeloproliferative neoplasm with ring 
sideroblasts and thrombocytosis. Leukemia 2022;36:1432 -1435. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35220402.  
72. DiNardo CD, Daver N, Jain N, et al. Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative 
neoplasms, unclassifiable (MDS/MPN, U): natural history and clinical 
outcome by treatment strategy. Leukemia 2014;28:958- 961. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24492324 . 
73. Swerdlow SH, Campo E, Harris NL, et al. WHO Classification of 
Tumours of Haematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues. Revised 4th ed. IARC 
Press: Lyon 2017.  
74. Zoi K, Cross NC. Molecular pathogenesis of atypical CML, CMML and 
MDS/MPN -unclassifiable. Int J Hematol 2015;101:229- 242. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25212680 . 
75. Kanagal -Shamanna R, Orazi A, Hasserjian RP, et al. 
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms -unclassifiable with isolated 
isochromosome 17q represents a distinct clinico- biologic subset: A multi -
institutional collaborative study from the Bone Marrow  Pathology Group. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-50 Mod Pathol 2022;35:470 -479. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34775472 . 
76. Calvo KR, Price S, Braylan RC, et al. JMML and RALD (Ras -
associated autoimmune leukoproliferative disorder): common genetic 
etiology yet clinically distinct entities. Blood 2015;125:2753- 2758. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25691160.  
77. Sakaguchi H, Okuno Y, Muramatsu H, et al. Exome sequencing 
identifies secondary mutations of SETBP1 and JAK3 in juvenile 
myelomonocytic leukemia. Nat Genet 2013;45:937- 941. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23832011 . 
78. Maguire AM, Vowels MR, Russell S, et al. Allogeneic bone marrow 
transplant improves outcome for juvenile myelomonocytic leukaemia. J 
Paediatr Child Health 2002;38:166 -169. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12030999 . 
79. Facchetti F, Petrella T, Pileri SA. Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell 
neoplasm. In: Swedlow SH, Campo E, Harris NL, et al., eds. WHO 
Classification of Tumors of Haematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues. (ed 
Revised 4th). Lyon: IARC; 2017.  
80. Pemmaraju N, Lane AA, Sweet KL, et al. Tagraxofusp in blastic 
plasmacytoid dendritic -cell neoplasm. N Engl J Med 2019;380:1628- 1637. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31018069.  
81. Itzykson R, Santini V, Thepot S, et al. Decitabine versus hydroxyurea 
for advanced proliferative chronic myelomonocytic leukemia: Results of a 
randomized phase III trial within the EMSCO network. J Clin Oncol 
2023;41:1888 -1897. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36455187 . 
82. Xie M, Lu C, Wang J, et al. Age -related mutations associated with 
clonal hematopoietic expansion and malignancies. Nat Med 
2014;20:1472 -1478. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25326804 . 83. Jaiswal S, Fontanillas P, Flannick J, et al. Age- related clonal 
hematopoiesis associated with adverse outcomes. N Engl J Med 
2014;371:2488 -2498. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25426837 . 
84. Genovese G, Kahler AK, Handsaker RE, et al. Clonal hematopoiesis and blood- cancer risk inferred from blood DNA sequence. N Engl J Med 
2014;371:2477 -2487. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25426838 . 
85. Steensma DP, Bejar R, Jaiswal S, et al. Clonal hematopoiesis of 
indeterminate potential and its distinction from myelodysplastic 
syndromes. Blood 2015;126:9- 16. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25931582 . 
86. Malcovati L, Galli A, Travaglino E, et al. Clinical significance of somatic 
mutation in unexplained blood cytopenia. Blood 2017;129:3371 -3378. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28424163.  
87. Weeks LD, Niroula A, Neuberg D, et al. Prediction of risk for myeloid malignancy in clonal hematopoiesis. NEJM Evid 2023;2. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37483562 . 
88. Cargo CA, Rowbotham N, Evans PA, et al. Targeted sequencing 
identifies patients with preclinical MDS at high risk of disease progression. 
Blood 2015;126:2362 -2365. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26392596 . 
89. Gu M, Kovilakam SC, Dunn WG, et al. Multiparameter prediction of 
myeloid neoplasia risk. Nat Genet 2023;55:1523 -1530. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37620601 . 
90. Kwok B, Hall JM, Witte JS, et al. MDS -associated somatic mutations 
and clonal hematopoiesis are common in idiopathic cytopenias of 
undetermined significance. Blood 2015;126:2355 -2361. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26429975 . 
91. Hasle H, Kerndrup G, Jacobsen BB. Childhood myelodysplastic 
syndrome in Denmark: incidence and predisposing conditions. Leukemia PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-51 1995;9:1569 -1572. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7658725 . 
92. Jackson GH, Carey PJ, Cant AJ, et al. Myelodysplastic syndromes in 
children. Br J Haematol 1993;84:185 -186. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8338777 . 
93. Passmore SJ, Chessells JM, Kempski H, et al. Paediatric 
myelodysplastic syndromes and juvenile myelomonocytic leukaemia in the 
UK: a population -based study of incidence and survival. Br J Haematol 
2003;121:758 -767. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12780790 . 
94. Alter BP, Giri N, Savage SA, et al. Malignancies and survival patterns 
in the National Cancer Institute inherited bone marrow failure syndromes 
cohort study. Br J Haematol 2010;150:179- 188. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20507306 . 
95. Creutzig U, Ritter J, Vormoor J, et al. Myelodysplasia and acute 
myelogenous leukemia in Down's syndrome. A report of 40 children of the 
AML-BFM Study Group. Leukemia 1996;10:1677 -1686. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8892666 . 
96. Zipursky A, Poon A, Doyle J. Leukemia in Down syndrome: a review. 
Pediatr Hematol Oncol 1992;9:139 -149. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1388043 . 
97. Zipursky A, Thorner P, De Harven E, et al. Myelodysplasia and acute 
megakaryoblastic leukemia in Down's syndrome. Leuk Res 1994;18:163-
171. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8139285 . 
98. Hasle H, Clausen N, Pedersen B, Bendix -Hansen K. Myelodysplastic 
syndrome in a child with constitutional trisomy 8 mosaicism and normal phenotype. Cancer Genet Cytogenet 1995;79:79 -81. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7850757 . 
99. Alter BP. Fanconi's anemia and malignancies. Am J Hematol 1996;53:99 -110. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8892734 . 100. Alter BP, Caruso JP, Drachtman RA, et al. Fanconi anemia: myelodysplasia as a predictor of outcome. Cancer Genet Cytogenet 
2000;117:125 -131. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10704682 . 
101. Welte K, Zeidler C, Dale DC. Severe congenital neutropenia. Semin Hematol 2006;43:189 -195. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16822461 . 
102. Zeidler C, Welte K. Kostmann syndrome and severe congenital neutropenia. Semin Hematol 2002;39:82- 88. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11957189 . 
103. Salariu M, Miron I, Tansanu I. [Diamond- Blackfan anemia. Case 
report]. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi 2010;114:420- 423. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20700978 . 
104. Okcu F, Roberts WM, Chan KW. Bone marrow transplantation in 
Shwachman- Diamond syndrome: report of two cases and review of the 
literature. Bone Marrow Transplant 1998;21:849- 851. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9603415 . 
105. Alter BP, Giri N, Savage SA, Rosenberg PS. Cancer in dyskeratosis 
congenita. Blood 2009;113:6549- 6557. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19282459 . 
106. Maris JM, Wiersma SR, Mahgoub N, et al. Monosomy 7 myelodysplastic syndrome and other second malignant neoplasms in 
children with neurofibromatosis type 1. Cancer 1997;79:1438 -1446. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9083167.  
107. Aktas D, Koc A, Boduroglu K, et al. Myelodysplastic syndrome 
associated with monosomy 7 in a child with Bloom syndrome. Cancer 
Genet Cytogenet 2000;116:44- 46. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10616531 . 
108. Poppe B, Van Limbergen H, Van Roy N, et al. Chromosomal aberrations in Bloom syndrome patients with myeloid malignancies. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-52 Cancer Genet Cytogenet 2001;128:39- 42. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11454428 . 
109. Derbent M, Oncel Y, Tokel K, et al. Clinical and hematologic findings 
in Noonan syndrome patients with PTPN11 gene mutations. Am J Med 
Genet A 2010;152A:2768- 2774. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20954246 . 
110. Tsukahara M, Opitz JM. Dubowitz syndrome: review of 141 cases 
including 36 previously unreported patients. Am J Med Genet 
1996;63:277 -289. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8723121 . 
111. Bhatia S, Krailo MD, Chen Z, et al. Therapy -related myelodysplasia 
and acute myeloid leukemia after Ewing sarcoma and primitive neuroectodermal tumor of bone: A report from the Children's Oncology 
Group. Blood 2007;109:46- 51. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16985182 . 
112. Felix CA. Secondary leukemias induced by topoisomerase -targeted 
drugs. Biochim Biophys Acta 1998;1400:233 -255. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9748598 . 
113. Krishnan A, Bhatia S, Slovak ML, et al. Predictors of therapy -related 
leukemia and myelodysplasia following autologous transplantation for 
lymphoma: an assessment of risk factors. Blood 2000;95:1588 -1593. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10688812.  
114. Le Deley MC, Leblanc T, Shamsaldin A, et al. Risk of secondary 
leukemia after a solid tumor in childhood according to the dose of 
epipodophyllotoxins and anthracyclines: a case- control study by the 
Societe Francaise d'Oncologie Pediatrique. J Clin Onc ol 2003;21:1074-
1081. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12637473 . 
115. Polishchuk AL, Dubois SG, Haas -Kogan D, et al. Response, survival, 
and toxicity after iodine- 131-metaiodobenzylguanidine therapy for 
neuroblastoma in preadolescents, adolescents, and adults. Cancer 2011;117:4286 -4293. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21387264 . 116. Weiss B, Vora A, Huberty J, et al. Secondary myelodysplastic 
syndrome and leukemia following 131I -metaiodobenzylguanidine therapy 
for relapsed neuroblastoma. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol 2003;25:543- 547. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12847321.  
117. Gohring G, Michalova K, Beverloo HB, et al. Complex karyotype 
newly defined: the strongest prognostic factor in advanced childhood 
myelodysplastic syndrome. Blood 2010;116:3766- 3769. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20802024 . 
118. Daghistani D, Toledano SR, Curless R. Monosomy 7 syndrome. 
Clinical heterogeneity in children and adolescents. Cancer Genet 
Cytogenet 1990;44:263- 269. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2297685 . 
119. Kardos G, Baumann I, Passmore SJ, et al. Refractory anemia in 
childhood: a retrospective analysis of 67 patients with particular reference 
to monosomy 7. Blood 2003;102:1997 -2003. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12763938 . 
120. Paulsson K, Johansson B. Trisomy 8 as the sole chromosomal 
aberration in acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Pathol Biol (Paris) 2007;55:37- 48. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16697122 . 
121. Saumell S, Florensa L, Luno E, et al. Prognostic value of trisomy 8 as 
a single anomaly and the influence of additional cytogenetic aberrations in 
primary myelodysplastic syndromes. Br J Haematol 2012;159:311 -321. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22958186.  
122. Cortes JE, Kantarjian H, O'Brien S, et al. Clinical and prognostic 
significance of trisomy 21 in adult patients with acute myelogenous 
leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes. Leukemia 1995;9:115- 117. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7845005.  
123. Pitman SD, Victorio A, Rowsell E, et al. 5q-  syndrome in a child with 
slowly progressive pancytopenia: a case report and review of the literature. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol 2006;28:115- 119. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16679931 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-53 124. Al -Rahawan MM, Alter BP, Bryant BJ, Elghetany MT. Bone marrow 
cell cycle markers in inherited bone marrow failure syndromes. Leuk Res 
2008;32:1793 -1799. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18606449 . 
125. Creutzig U, van den Heuvel -Eibrink MM, Gibson B, et al. Diagnosis 
and management of acute myeloid leukemia in children and adolescents: 
recommendations from an international expert panel. Blood 
2012;120:3187 -3205. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22879540 . 
126. Carpenter SL, Zimmerman SA, Ware RE. Acute parvovirus B19 infection mimicking congenital dyserythropoietic anemia. J Pediatr 
Hematol Oncol 2004;26:133- 135. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14767207 . 
127. Yetgin S, Cetin M, Yenicesu I, et al. Acute parvovirus B19 infection 
mimicking juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia. Eur J Haematol 
2000;65:276 -278. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11073169 . 
128. Liu Y, Tang SQ, Liu LZ, et al. [Characteristics of chronic active 
Epstein- Barr virus infection- associated hematological disorders in 
children]. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi 2008;16:574 -578. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18549632.  
129. Angotti LB, Post GR, Robinson NS, et al. Pancytopenia with myelodysplasia due to copper deficiency. Pediatr Blood Cancer 
2008;51:693 -695. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18623212 . 
130. Steensma DP. Dysplasia has A differential diagnosis: distinguishing 
genuine myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) from mimics, imitators, 
copycats and impostors. Curr Hematol Malig Rep 2012;7:310 -320. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23015360.  
131. Tandonnet J, Clavel J, Baruchel A, et al. Myeloid leukaemia in 
children with Down syndrome: report of the registry -based French experience between 1990 and 2003. Pediatr Blood Cancer 2010;54:927-
933. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20405513 . 
132. Zubizarreta P, Felice MS, Alfaro E, et al. Acute myelogenous 
leukemia in Down's syndrome: report of a single pediatric institution using 
a BFM treatment strategy. Leuk Res 1998;22:465 -472. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9652734 . 
133. Bierings M, Nachman JB, Zwaan CM. Stem cell transplantation in 
pediatric leukemia and myelodysplasia: state of the art and current 
challenges. Curr Stem Cell Res Ther 2007;2:53- 63. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18240454 . 
134. Shaw PJ, Kan F, Woo Ahn K, et al. Outcomes of pediatric bone 
marrow transplantation for leukemia and myelodysplasia using matched 
sibling, mismatched related, or matched unrelated donors. Blood 
2010;116:4007 -4015. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20671124 . 
135. Strahm B, Nollke P, Zecca M, et al. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for advanced myelodysplastic syndrome in children: results 
of the EWOG -MDS 98 study. Leukemia 2011;25:455- 462. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21212791 . 
136. Yin CC, Medeiros LJ, Bueso -Ramos CE. Recent advances in the 
diagnosis and classification of myeloid neoplasms --comments on the 2008 
WHO classification. Int J Lab Hematol 2010;32:461- 476. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20626469 . 
137. Loh ML. Recent advances in the pathogenesis and treatment of 
juvenile myelomonocytic leukaemia. Br J Haematol 2011;152:677 -687. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21623760.  
138. Trobaugh- Lotrario AD, Kletzel M, Quinones RR, et al. Monosomy 7 
associated with pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 
myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS): successful management by allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Bone Marrow Trans plant 
2005;35:143 -149. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15558042 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-54 139. Manoharan A, Horsley R, Pitney WR. The reticulin content of bone 
marrow in acute leukaemia in adults. Br J Haematol 1979;43:185- 190. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/508627.  
140. Lambertenghi -Deliliers G, Orazi A, Luksch R, et al. Myelodysplastic 
syndrome with increased marrow fibrosis: a distinct clinico- pathological 
entity. Br J Haematol 1991;78:161 -166. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1712222 . 
141. Maschek H, Georgii A, Kaloutsi V, et al. Myelofibrosis in primary 
myelodysplastic syndromes: a retrospective study of 352 patients. Eur J 
Haematol 1992;48:208 -214. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1592101 . 
142. Pagliuca A, Layton DM, Manoharan A, et al. Myelofibrosis in primary 
myelodysplastic syndromes: a clinico- morphological study of 10 cases. Br 
J Haematol 1989;71:499 -504. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2640542 . 
143. Steensma DP, Hanson CA, Letendre L, Tefferi A. Myelodysplasia 
with fibrosis: a distinct entity? Leuk Res 2001;25:829- 838. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11532514 . 
144. Yoshida K, Sanada M, Shiraishi Y, et al. Frequent pathway mutations of splicing machinery in myelodysplasia. Nature 2011;478:64 -69. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21909114 . 
145. Jafarzadeh A, Poorgholami M, Izadi N, et al. Immunological and 
hematological changes in patients with hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism. 
Clin Invest Med 2010;33:E271- 279. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20926033 . 
146. Morita K, Arai S, Kogure Y, et al. Serum LDH is useful to predict 
prognosis for intermediate- risk myelodysplastic syndrome [abstract]. Blood 
2015;126:Abstract 5255. Available at: http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/126/23/5255 . 147. Gregg XT, Reddy V, Prchal JT. Copper deficiency masquerading as 
myelodysplastic syndrome. Blood 2002;100:1493- 1495. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12149237 . 
148. Haddad AS, Subbiah V, Lichtin AE, et al. Hypocupremia and bone 
marrow failure. Haematologica 2008;93:e1 -5. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18166767 . 
149. Koca E, Buyukasik Y, Cetiner D, et al. Copper deficiency with increased hematogones mimicking refractory anemia with excess blasts. 
Leuk Res 2008;32:495 -499. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17706281 . 
150. Fong T, Vij R, Vijayan A, et al. Copper deficiency: an important 
consideration in the differential diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndrome. 
Haematologica 2007;92:1429- 1430. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18024379 . 
151. Prodan CI, Bottomley SS, Vincent AS, et al. Hypocupremia 
associated with prior vitamin B12 deficiency. Am J Hematol 2007;82:288 -
290. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16986134 . 
152. Du HY, Pumbo E, Ivanovich J, et al. TERC and TERT gene mutations in patients with bone marrow failure and the significance of 
telomere length measurements. Blood 2009;113:309- 316. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18931339 . 
153. Vulliamy TJ, Marrone A, Knight SW, et al. Mutations in dyskeratosis 
congenita: their impact on telomere length and the diversity of clinical 
presentation. Blood 2006;107:2680 -2685. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16332973 . 
154. Alter BP, Baerlocher GM, Savage SA, et al. Very short telomere 
length by flow fluorescence in situ hybridization identifies patients with 
dyskeratosis congenita. Blood 2007;110:1439 -1447. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17468339 . 
155. Michaud J, Wu F, Osato M, et al. In vitro analyses of known and 
novel RUNX1/AML1 mutations in dominant familial platelet disorder with PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-55 predisposition to acute myelogenous leukemia: implications for 
mechanisms of pathogenesis. Blood 2002;99:1364- 1372. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11830488 . 
156. Song WJ, Sullivan MG, Legare RD, et al. Haploinsufficiency of 
CBFA2 causes familial thrombocytopenia with propensity to develop acute 
myelogenous leukaemia. Nat Genet 1999;23:166 -175. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10508512 . 
157. Liew E, Owen C. Familial myelodysplastic syndromes: a review of the 
literature. Haematologica 2011;96:1536- 1542. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21606161 . 
158. Quentin S, Cuccuini W, Ceccaldi R, et al. Myelodysplasia and leukemia of Fanconi anemia are associated with a specific pattern of 
genomic abnormalities that includes cryptic RUNX1/AML1 lesions. Blood 
2011;117:e161 -170. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21325596 . 
159. Fadilah SA, Cheong SK, Roslan H, et al. GATA -1 and GATA -2 gene 
expression is related to the severity of dysplasia in myelodysplastic 
syndrome. Leukemia 2002;16:1563 -1565. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12145700 . 
160. Hahn CN, Chong CE, Carmichael CL, et al. Heritable GATA2 
mutations associated with familial myelodysplastic syndrome and acute 
myeloid leukemia. Nat Genet 2011;43:1012 -1017. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21892162 . 
161. Dunn DE, Tanawattanacharoen P, Boccuni P, et al. Paroxysmal 
nocturnal hemoglobinuria cells in patients with bone marrow failure 
syndromes. Ann Intern Med 1999;131:401 -408. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10498555 . 
162. Jerez A, Clemente MJ, Makishima H, et al. STAT3 mutations indicate the presence of subclinical T- cell clones in a subset of aplastic anemia 
and myelodysplastic syndrome patients. Blood 2013;122:2453 -2459. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23926297.  163. Sloand EM, Wu CO, Greenberg P, et al. Factors affecting response and survival in patients with myelodysplasia treated with 
immunosuppressive therapy. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:2505- 2511. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18413642 . 
164. Borowitz MJ, Craig FE, Digiuseppe JA, et al. Guidelines for the diagnosis and monitoring of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria and 
related disorders by flow cytometry. Cytometry B Clin Cytom 2010;78:211 -
230. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20533382 . 
165. Dezern AE, Borowitz MJ. ICCS/ESCCA consensus guidelines to 
detect GPI -deficient cells in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) 
and related disorders part 1 -  clinical utility. Cytometry B Clin Cytom 
2018;94:16 -22. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29236352 . 
166. Takeda J, Miyata T, Kawagoe K, et al. Deficiency of the GPI anchor 
caused by a somatic mutation of the PIG -A gene in paroxysmal nocturnal 
hemoglobinuria. Cell 1993;73:703 -711. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8500164 . 
167. Ware RE, Rosse WF, Howard TA. Mutations within the Piga gene in 
patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. Blood 1994;83:2418 -
2422. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8167330 . 
168. Battiwalla M, Hepgur M, Pan D, et al. Multiparameter flow cytometry 
for the diagnosis and monitoring of small GPI -deficient cellular 
populations. Cytometry B Clin Cytom 2010;78:348- 356. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20533383 . 
169. Saunthararajah Y, Molldrem JL, Rivera M, et al. Coincident 
myelodysplastic syndrome and T- cell large granular lymphocytic disease: 
clinical and pathophysiological features. Br J Haematol 2001;112:195- 200. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11167802.  
170. Molldrem JJ, Leifer E, Bahceci E, et al. Antithymocyte globulin for 
treatment of the bone marrow failure associated with myelodysplastic 
syndromes. Ann Intern Med 2002;137:156 -163. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12160363 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-56 171. Kochenderfer JN, Kobayashi S, Wieder ED, et al. Loss of T-
lymphocyte clonal dominance in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome 
responsive to immunosuppression. Blood 2002;100:3639- 3645. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12393644 . 
172. Dhodapkar MV, Li CY, Lust JA, et al. Clinical spectrum of clonal proliferations of T- large granular lymphocytes: a T -cell clonopathy of 
undetermined significance? Blood 1994;84:1620- 1627. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8068951 . 
173. Kussick SJ, Fromm JR, Rossini A, et al. Four -color flow cytometry 
shows strong concordance with bone marrow morphology and 
cytogenetics in the evaluation for myelodysplasia. Am J Clin Pathol 
2005;124:170 -181. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16040286 . 
174. van de Loosdrecht AA, Alhan C, Bene MC, et al. Standardization of flow cytometry in myelodysplastic syndromes: report from the first 
European LeukemiaNet working conference on flow cytometry in 
myelodysplastic syndromes. Haematologica 2009;94:1124 -1134. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19546437 . 
175. Westers TM, Ireland R, Kern W, et al. Standardization of flow cytometry in myelodysplastic syndromes: a report from an international 
consortium and the European LeukemiaNet Working Group. Leukemia 
2012;26:1730 -1741. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22307178 . 
176. Wood BL. Myeloid malignancies: myelodysplastic syndromes, myeloproliferative disorders, and acute myeloid leukemia. Clin Lab Med 
2007;27:551 -575, vii. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17658407 . 
177. Wood BL, Arroz M, Barnett D, et al. 2006 Bethesda International 
Consensus recommendations on the immunophenotypic analysis of 
hematolymphoid neoplasia by flow cytometry: optimal reagents and 
reporting for the flow cytometric diagnosis of hematopoietic  neoplasia. 
Cytometry B Clin Cytom 2007;72 Suppl 1:S14- 22. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17803189 . 178. Della Porta MG, Picone C, Pascutto C, et al. Multicenter validation of 
a reproducible flow cytometric score for the diagnosis of low -grade 
myelodysplastic syndromes: results of a European LeukemiaNET study. Haematologica 2012;97:1209- 1217. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22315489 . 
179. Chan WC, Foucar K, Morice WG, Catovsky D. T -cell large granular 
lymphocytic leukaemia. In: Swerdlow, SH, Campo, E, Harris, NL, et al, 
eds. WHO classification of tumours of haematopoietic and lymphoid 
tissues. 4th ed. Lyon: IARC; 2008;272 -273. 
180. Morgan EA, Lee MN, DeAngelo DJ, et al. Systematic STAT3 sequencing in patients with unexplained cytopenias identifies unsuspected 
large granular lymphocytic leukemia. Blood Adv 2017;1:1786 -1789. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29296824.  
181. Patnaik MM, Tefferi A. Cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities in 
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Blood Cancer J 2016;6:e393. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26849014.  
182. David M, Cross NC, Burgstaller S, et al. Durable responses to 
imatinib in patients with PDGFRB fusion gene -positive and BCR -ABL-
negative chronic myeloproliferative disorders. Blood 2007;109:61- 64. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16960151.  
183. Magnusson MK, Meade KE, Nakamura R, et al. Activity of STI571 in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia with a platelet -derived growth factor 
beta receptor fusion oncogene. Blood 2002;100:1088- 1091. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12130532 . 
184. Shomali W, Gotlib J. World Health Organization- defined eosinophilic 
disorders: 2022 update on diagnosis, risk stratification, and management. 
Am J Hematol 2022;97:129- 148. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34533850 . 
185. Jacobs A, Janowska- Wieczorek A, Caro J, et al. Circulating 
erythropoietin in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Br J Haematol 1989;73:36 -39. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2803975 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-57 186. Sanz GF, Sanz MA, Greenberg PL. Prognostic factors and scoring 
systems in myelodysplastic syndromes. Haematologica 1998;83:358- 368. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9592987.  
187. Padron E, Garcia- Manero G, Patnaik MM, et al. An international data 
set for CMML validates prognostic scoring systems and demonstrates a 
need for novel prognostication strategies. Blood Cancer J 2015;5:e333. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26230957.  
188. Bennett JM, Catovsky D, Daniel MT, et al. The chronic myeloid 
leukaemias: guidelines for distinguishing chronic granulocytic, atypical 
chronic myeloid, and chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia. Proposals by the 
French- American- British Cooperative Leukaemi a Group. Br J Haematol 
1994;87:746 -754. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7986717 . 
189. Greenberg PL, Tuechler H, Schanz J, et al. Revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS -R) for myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Blood 2012;120:2454 -2465. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22740453 . 
190. Zeidan AM, Sekeres MA, Garcia- Manero G, et al. Comparison of risk 
stratification tools in predicting outcomes of patients with higher -risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes treated with azanucleosides. Leukemia 2016;30:649 -657. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26464171 . 
191. Moon JH, Sohn SK, Ahn JS, et al. Role of hypomethylating agents for patients with lower -risk myelodysplastic syndrome defined by IPSS and 
IPSS- R. Blood 2013;122:2782- 2782. Available at: 
http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/122/21/2782 . 
192. de Swart L, Smith A, Johnston TW, et al. Validation of the revised 
international prognostic scoring system (IPSS -R) in patients with lower -risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes: a report from the prospective European 
LeukaemiaNet MDS (EUMDS) registry. Britis h Journal of Haematology 
2015;170:372 -383. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/bjh.13450 . 193. Mishra A, Corrales -Yepez M, Ali NA, et al. Validation of the revised 
International Prognostic Scoring System in treated patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Am J Hematol 2013;88:566 -570. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23605934 . 
194. Valcarcel D, Sanz G, Ortega M, et al. Use of newer prognostic indices for patients with myelodysplastic syndromes in the low and 
intermediate- 1 risk categories: a population- based study. Lancet Haematol 
2015;2:e260 -266. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26688236 . 
195. Neukirchen J, Lauseker M, Blum S, et al. Validation of the revised 
international prognostic scoring system (IPSS -R) in patients with 
myelodysplastic syndrome: a multicenter study. Leuk Res 2014;38:57 -64. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24238640.  
196. Messa E, Gioia D, Evangelista A, et al. High predictive value of the revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS -R): An external 
analysis of 646 patients from a multiregional Italian MDS registry [abstract]. Blood 2012;120:Abstract 1702. Available at: 
http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/120/21/1702 . 
197. Ok CY, Hasserjian RP, Fox PS, et al. Application of the international 
prognostic scoring system -revised in therapy -related myelodysplastic 
syndromes and oligoblastic acute myeloid leukemia. Leukemia 
2014;28:185 -189. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23787392 . 
198. Zeidan AM, Al Ali N, Barnard J, et al. Comparison of clinical outcomes and prognostic utility of risk stratification tools in patients with 
therapy -related vs de novo myelodysplastic syndromes: a report on behalf 
of the MDS Clinical Research Consortium. Leukemia 2017;31:1391- 1397. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28111463.  
199. Voso MT, Fenu S, Latagliata R, et al. Revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) predicts survival and leukemic 
evolution of myelodysplastic syndromes significantly better than IPSS and 
WHO Prognostic Scoring System: validation by the Gruppo Romano PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-58 Mielodisplasie Italian Regional Database. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:2671 -
2677. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23796988 . 
200. Della Porta MG, Alessandrino EP, Bacigalupo A, et al. Predictive 
factors for the outcome of allogeneic transplantation in patients with MDS 
stratified according to the revised IPSS -R. Blood 2014;123:2333 -2342. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24558201.  
201. van Spronsen MF, Ossenkoppele GJ, Holman R, van de Loosdrecht 
AA. Improved risk stratification by the integration of the revised 
international prognostic scoring system with the myelodysplastic 
syndromes comorbidity index. Eur J Cancer 2014;50:3198 -3205. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25454415 . 
202. Pfeilstocker M, Tuechler H, Sanz G, et al. Time- dependent changes 
in mortality and transformation risk in MDS. Blood 2016;128:902- 910. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27335276.  
203. Malcovati L, Germing U, Kuendgen A, et al. Time- dependent 
prognostic scoring system for predicting survival and leukemic evolution in 
myelodysplastic syndromes. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3503- 3510. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17687155 . 
204. Kao JM, McMillan A, Greenberg PL. International MDS risk analysis 
workshop (IMRAW)/IPSS reanalyzed: impact of cytopenias on clinical 
outcomes in myelodysplastic syndromes. Am J Hematol 2008;83:765- 770. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18645988.  
205. Alessandrino EP, Della Porta MG, Bacigalupo A, et al. WHO 
classification and WPSS predict posttransplantation outcome in patients 
with myelodysplastic syndrome: a study from the Gruppo Italiano 
Trapianto di Midollo Osseo (GITMO). Blood 2008;112:895 -902. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18497321 . 
206. Cermak J, Kacirkova P, Mikulenkova D, Michalova K. Impact of 
transfusion dependency on survival in patients with early myelodysplastic 
syndrome without excess of blasts. Leuk Res 2009;33:1469 -1474. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19646756.  207. Park MJ, Kim HJ, Kim SH, et al. Is International Prognostic Scoring 
System (IPSS) still standard in predicting prognosis in patients with 
myelodysplastic syndrome? External validation of the WHO Classification-
Based Prognostic Scoring System (WPSS) and comparison with IPSS. 
Eur J Haematol 2008;81:364- 373. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18637029 . 
208. Malcovati L, Della Porta MG, Strupp C, et al. Impact of the degree of 
anemia on the outcome of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and its 
integration into the WHO classification- based Prognostic Scoring System 
(WPSS). Haematologica 2011;96:1433 -1440. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21659359 . 
209. Bernard E, Tuechler H, Greenberg PL, et al. Molecular international 
prognostic scoring system for myelodysplastic syndromes. NEJM Evid 
2022;1:EVIDoa2200008. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38319256 . 
210. Garcia -Manero G, Shan J, Faderl S, et al. A prognostic score for 
patients with lower risk myelodysplastic syndrome. Leukemia 
2008;22:538 -543. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18079733 . 
211. Pomares H, Sánchez -Ortega I, Alonso E, et al. Validation of the Low 
Risk Prognostic Scoring System (LR -PSS) in patients with very low, low 
and intermediate risk IPSS -R myelodysplastic syndrome. Results from a 
single center [abstract]. Blood 2015;126:A bstract 2902. Available at: 
http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/126/23/2902 . 
212. Komrokji R, Ramadan H, Al Ali N, et al. Validation of the lower -risk 
MD Anderson prognostic scoring system for patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2015;15 Suppl:S60- 63. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26297280.  
213. Sekeres MA, Elson P, Tiu RV, et al. Validating the Lower -Risk MD 
Anderson Prognostic Scoring System (LR -PSS) and the Revised 
International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS -R) for patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes [abstract]. Blood 2011;118:Abstract 1720. 
Available at: PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-59 https://ashpublications.org/blood/article/118/21/1720/139864/Validating-
the-Lower -Risk-MD-Anderson- Prognostic . 
214. Bejar R, Stevenson K, Abdel -Wahab O, et al. Clinical effect of point 
mutations in myelodysplastic syndromes. N Engl J Med 2011;364:2496 -
2506. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21714648 . 
215. Papaemmanuil E, Gerstung M, Malcovati L, et al. Clinical and 
biological implications of driver mutations in myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Blood 2013;122:3616 -3627. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24030381 . 
216. Haferlach T, Nagata Y, Grossmann V, et al. Landscape of genetic lesions in 944 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Leukemia 
2014;28:241 -247. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24220272 . 
217. Itzykson R, Kosmider O, Renneville A, et al. Prognostic score 
including gene mutations in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. J Clin 
Oncol 2013;31:2428 -2436. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23690417 . 
218. Patnaik MM, Itzykson R, Lasho TL, et al. ASXL1 and SETBP1 
mutations and their prognostic contribution in chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia: a two -center study of 466 patients. Leukemia 2014;28:2206 -
2212. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24695057 . 
219. Walter MJ, Ding L, Shen D, et al. Recurrent DNMT3A mutations in 
patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Leukemia 2011;25:1153- 1158. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21415852.  
220. Graubert TA, Shen D, Ding L, et al. Recurrent mutations in the U2AF1 splicing factor in myelodysplastic syndromes. Nat Genet 
2011;44:53 -57. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22158538 . 
221. Wang H, Zhang N, Wu X, et al. Prognostic value of U2AF1 mutant in patients with de novo myelodysplastic syndromes: a meta- analysis. Ann Hematol 2019;98:2629 -2639. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31754743 . 
222. Thol F, Kade S, Schlarmann C, et al. Frequency and prognostic 
impact of mutations in SRSF2, U2AF1, and ZRSR2 in patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes. Blood 2012;119:3578- 3584. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22389253 . 
223. Makishima H, Yoshida K, Nguyen N, et al. Somatic SETBP1 
mutations in myeloid malignancies. Nat Genet 2013;45:942 -946. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23832012 . 
224. Malcovati L, Karimi M, Papaemmanuil E, et al. SF3B1 mutation identifies a distinct subset of myelodysplastic syndrome with ring 
sideroblasts. Blood 2015;126:233 -241. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25957392 . 
225. Patnaik MM, Lasho TL, Hodnefield JM, et al. SF3B1 mutations are 
prevalent in myelodysplastic syndromes with ring sideroblasts but do not 
hold independent prognostic value. Blood 2012;119:569- 572. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22096241 . 
226. Itzykson R, Kosmider O, Cluzeau T, et al. Impact of TET2 mutations 
on response rate to azacitidine in myelodysplastic syndromes and low 
blast count acute myeloid leukemias. Leukemia 2011;25:1147 -1152. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21494260.  
227. Bejar R, Lord A, Stevenson K, et al. TET2 mutations predict response 
to hypomethylating agents in myelodysplastic syndrome patients. Blood 
2014;124:2705 -2712. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25224413 . 
228. Sebaa A, Ades L, Baran- Marzack F, et al. Incidence of 17p deletions 
and TP53 mutation in myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid 
leukemia with 5q deletion. Genes Chromosomes Cancer 2012;51:1086 -
1092. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22933333 . 
229. Jadersten M, Saft L, Smith A, et al. TP53 mutations in low -risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes with del(5q) predict disease progression. J PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-60 Clin Oncol 2011;29:1971 -1979. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21519010 . 
230. Mallo M, Del Rey M, Ibanez M, et al. Response to lenalidomide in 
myelodysplastic syndromes with del(5q): influence of cytogenetics and 
mutations. Br J Haematol 2013;162:74 -86. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23614682 . 
231. Jadersten M, Saft L, Pellagatti A, et al. Clonal heterogeneity in the 
5q- syndrome: p53 expressing progenitors prevail during lenalidomide 
treatment and expand at disease progression. Haematologica 2009;94:1762 -1766. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19797731 . 
232. Mohamedali AM, Alkhatabi H, Kulasekararaj A, et al. Utility of 
peripheral blood for cytogenetic and mutation analysis in myelodysplastic 
syndrome. Blood 2013;122:567- 570. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23760614 . 
233. Della Porta MG, Malcovati L. Clinical relevance of extra- hematologic 
comorbidity in the management of patients with myelodysplastic 
syndrome. Haematologica 2009;94:602- 606. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19407314 . 
234. Naqvi K, Garcia- Manero G, Sardesai S, et al. Association of 
comorbidities with overall survival in myelodysplastic syndrome: development of a prognostic model. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:2240 -2246. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21537048.  
235. Sperr WR, Wimazal F, Kundi M, et al. Comorbidity as prognostic 
variable in MDS: comparative evaluation of the HCT- CI and CCI in a core 
dataset of 419 patients of the Austrian MDS Study Group. Ann Oncol 2010;21:114 -119. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19605505 . 
236. Wang R, Gross CP, Halene S, Ma X. Comorbidities and survival in a large cohort of patients with newly diagnosed myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Leuk Res 2009;33:1594 -1598. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19324411 . 237. Zipperer E, Pelz D, Nachtkamp K, et al. The hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation comorbidity index is of prognostic relevance for patients 
with myelodysplastic syndrome. Haematologica 2009;94:729 -732. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19336740.  
238. Della Porta MG, Malcovati L, Strupp C, et al. Risk stratification based on both disease status and extra- hematologic comorbidities in patients 
with myelodysplastic syndrome. Haematologica 2011;96:441 -449. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21134982.  
239. Cheson BD, Bennett JM, Kantarjian H, et al. Report of an 
international working group to standardize response criteria for 
myelodysplastic syndromes. Blood 2000;96:3671- 3674. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11090046 . 
240. Cheson BD, Greenberg PL, Bennett JM, et al. Clinical application and 
proposal for modification of the International Working Group (IWG) 
response criteria in myelodysplasia. Blood 2006;108:419- 425. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16609072 . 
241. Greenberg P, Baer, M, Bennett, J et al. NCCN Practice Guidelines for 
Myelodysplastic Syndromes, Version1, 2001, In "The Complete Library of 
NCCN Guidelines [CD- ROM]," Rockledge, PA; 2001.  
242. Platzbecker U, Fenaux P, Ades L, et al. Proposals for revised IWG 
2018 hematological response criteria in patients with MDS included in 
clinical trials. Blood 2019;133:1020 -1030. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30404811 . 
243. Komrokji RS, Al Ali NH, Sallman D, et al. Validation of International Working Group response criteria in higher -risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes: A report on behalf of the MDS Clinical Research Consortium. Cancer Med 2021;10:447- 453. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33350168 . 
244. Zeidan AM, Platzbecker U, Bewersdorf JP, et al. Consensus proposal for revised International Working Group 2023 response criteria for higher -
risk myelodysplastic syndromes. Blood 2023;141:2047- 2061. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36724453 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-61 245. Hicks LK, Bering H, Carson KR, et al. The ASH Choosing Wisely® 
campaign: five hematologic tests and treatments to question. Blood 
2013;122:3879 -3883. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24307720 . 
246. Greenberg P. The role of hemopoietic growth factors in the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes. Int J Ped Hem -Onc 1997;4:231- 238. 
Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/7683622/ . 
247. Majhail NS, Farnia SH, Carpenter PA, et al. Indications for autologous and allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation: Guidelines 
from the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Biol 
Blood Marrow Transplant 2015;21:1863 -1869. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26256941 . 
248. Houwerzijl EJ, Blom NR, van der Want JJ, et al. Increased peripheral 
platelet destruction and caspase- 3-independent programmed cell death of 
bone marrow megakaryocytes in myelodysplastic patients. Blood 2005;105:3472 -3479. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15542580 . 
249. Tamura H, Ogata K, Luo S, et al. Plasma thrombopoietin (TPO) levels and expression of TPO receptor on platelets in patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes. Br J Haematol 1998;103:778 -784. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9858230.  
250. Bennett JM, Catovsky D, Daniel MT, et al. Proposals for the 
classification of the myelodysplastic syndromes. Br J Haematol 
1982;51:189 -199. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6952920 . 
251. Zwierzina H, Rollinger -Holzinger I, Nuessler V, et al. Endogenous 
serum thrombopoietin concentrations in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes. Leukemia 1998;12:59 -64. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9436921 . 
252. Greenberg PL, Garcia- Manero G, Moore M, et al. A randomized 
controlled trial of romiplostim in patients with low - or intermediate- risk 
myelodysplastic syndrome receiving decitabine. Leuk Lymphoma 2013;54:321 -328. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22906162 . 
253. Kantarjian H, Fenaux P, Sekeres MA, et al. Safety and efficacy of 
romiplostim in patients with lower -risk myelodysplastic syndrome and 
thrombocytopenia. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:437- 444. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20008626 . 
254. Kantarjian HM, Giles FJ, Greenberg PL, et al. Phase 2 study of 
romiplostim in patients with low - or intermediate -risk myelodysplastic 
syndrome receiving azacitidine therapy. Blood 2010;116:3163 -3170. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20631375.  
255. Sekeres MA, Kantarjian H, Fenaux P, et al. Subcutaneous or 
intravenous administration of romiplostim in thrombocytopenic patients 
with lower risk myelodysplastic syndromes. Cancer 2011;117:992 -1000. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20945323.  
256. Wang ES, Lyons RM, Larson RA, et al. A randomized, double- blind, 
placebo- controlled phase 2 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of 
romiplostim treatment of patients with low or intermediate- 1 risk 
myelodysplastic syndrome receiving lenalidomide. J Hematol Oncol 
2012;5:71. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23190430 . 
257. Sekeres MA, Giagounidis A, Kantarjian H, et al. Development and 
validation of a model to predict platelet response to romiplostim in patients 
with lower -risk myelodysplastic syndromes. Br J Haematol 2014;167:337 -
345. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25039607 . 
258. Giagounidis A, Mufti GJ, Fenaux P, et al. Results of a randomized, 
double- blind study of romiplostim versus placebo in patients with 
low/intermediate -1-risk myelodysplastic syndrome and thrombocytopenia. 
Cancer 2014;120:1838 -1846. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24706489 . 
259. Fenaux P, Muus P, Kantarjian H, et al. Romiplostim monotherapy in thrombocytopenic patients with myelodysplastic syndromes: long- term 
safety and efficacy. Br J Haematol 2017;178:906 -913. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28616874 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-62 260. Mavroudi I, Pyrovolaki K, Pavlaki K, et al. Effect of the nonpeptide 
thrombopoietin receptor agonist eltrombopag on megakaryopoiesis of 
patients with lower risk myelodysplastic syndrome. Leuk Res 2011;35:323-
328. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20688394 . 
261. Will B, Kawahara M, Luciano JP, et al. Effect of the nonpeptide 
thrombopoietin receptor agonist Eltrombopag on bone marrow cells from 
patients with acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome. 
Blood 2009;114:3899 -3908. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19710504 . 
262. Oliva EN, Riva M, Niscola P, et al. Eltrombopag for Low -Risk 
Myelodysplastic Syndromes With Thrombocytopenia: Interim Results of a 
Phase II, Randomized, Placebo- Controlled Clinical Trial (EQOL -MDS). J 
Clin Oncol 2023;41:4486 -4496. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37294914 . 
263. Vicente A, Patel BA, Gutierrez -Rodrigues F, et al. Eltrombopag 
monotherapy can improve hematopoiesis in patients with low to intermediate risk -1 myelodysplastic syndrome. Haematologica 
2020;105:2785 -2794. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33256377 . 
264. Fan X, Desmond R, Winkler T, et al. Eltrombopag for patients with 
moderate aplastic anemia or uni -lineage cytopenias. Blood Adv 
2020;4:1700 -1710. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32330244 . 
265. Swaminathan M, Borthakur G, Kadia TM, et al. A phase 2 clinical trial 
of eltrombopag for treatment of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes 
after hypomethylating- agent failure. Leuk Lymphoma 2019;60:2207 -2213. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30773968.  
266. Khan M, Kristy B, Kadia T, et al. Efficacy and safety of eltrombopag 
for treatment of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes after 
hypomethylating- agent failure: A phase 2 clinical trial. Blood 
2015;126:1691 -1691. Available at: 
http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/126/23/1691 . 267. Mittelman M, Platzbecker U, Afanasyev B, et al. Eltrombopag for 
advanced myelodysplastic syndromes or acute myeloid leukaemia and 
severe thrombocytopenia (ASPIRE): a randomised, placebo- controlled, 
phase 2 trial. Lancet Haematol 2018;5:e34- e43. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29241762 . 
268. Hashimoto S, Toba K, Fuse I, et al. Thrombopoietin activates the 
growth of megakaryoblasts in patients with chronic myeloproliferative 
disorders and myelodysplastic syndrome. Eur J Haematol 2000;64:225-
230. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10776693 . 
269. Luo SS, Ogata K, Yokose N, et al. Effect of thrombopoietin on proliferation of blasts from patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Stem 
Cells 2000;18:112- 119. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10742383 . 
270. Greenberg PL. Myelodysplastic syndromes: iron overload 
consequences and current chelating therapies. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 
2006;4:91 -96. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16403408 . 
271. Farquhar MJ, Bowen DT. Oxidative stress and the myelodysplastic 
syndromes. Int J Hematol 2003;77:342 -350. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12774921 . 
272. Hershko C, Link G, Cabantchik I. Pathophysiology of iron overload. 
Ann N Y Acad Sci 1998;850:191- 201. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9668540 . 
273. Jaeger M, Aul C, Sohngen D, et al. [Secondary hemochromatosis in polytransfused patients with myelodysplastic syndromes]. Beitr 
Infusionsther 1992;30:464- 468. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1284762 . 
274. Schafer AI, Cheron RG, Dluhy R, et al. Clinical consequences of acquired transfusional iron overload in adults. N Engl J Med 
1981;304:319 -324. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6777701 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-63 275. Jensen PD, Jensen FT, Christensen T, et al. Relationship between 
hepatocellular injury and transfusional iron overload prior to and during 
iron chelation with desferrioxamine: a study in adult patients with acquired 
anemias. Blood 2003;101:91- 96. Avai lable at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12393528 . 
276. Malcovati L. Impact of transfusion dependency and secondary iron 
overload on the survival of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Leuk 
Res 2007;31 Suppl 3:S2 -6. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18037415 . 
277. Mainous AG, 3rd, Tanner RJ, Hulihan MM, et al. The impact of 
chelation therapy on survival in transfusional iron overload: a meta-
analysis of myelodysplastic syndrome. Br J Haematol 2014;167:720- 723. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25048454.  
278. Hoeks M, Yu G, Langemeijer S, et al. Impact of treatment with iron 
chelation therapy in patients with lower -risk myelodysplastic syndromes 
participating in the European MDS registry. Haematologica 2020;105:640-651. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278207 . 
279. Yang S, Zhang MC, Leong R, et al. Iron chelation therapy in patients 
with low-  to intermediate -risk myelodysplastic syndrome: A systematic 
review and meta -analysis. Br J Haematol 2022;197:e9- e11. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34927248 . 
280. Angelucci E, Li J, Greenberg P, et al. Iron chelation in transfusion -
dependent patients with low - to intermediate -1-risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes: A randomized trial. Ann Intern Med 2020;172:513 -522. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32203980.  
281. Yang Y, Tang Z, An T, Zhao L. The impact of iron chelation therapy 
on patients with lower/intermediate IPSS MDS and the prognostic role of 
elevated serum ferritin in patients with MDS and AML: A meta -analysis. 
Medicine (Baltimore) 2019;98:e17406. Avai lable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31577751 . 282. Brittenham GM, Badman DG. Noninvasive measurement of iron: report of an NIDDK workshop. Blood 2003;101:15 -19. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12393526 . 
283. St Pierre TG, Clark PR, Chua- anusorn W, et al. Noninvasive 
measurement and imaging of liver iron concentrations using proton 
magnetic resonance. Blood 2005;105:855- 861. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15256427 . 
284. Jensen PD, Heickendorff L, Pedersen B, et al. The effect of iron 
chelation on haemopoiesis in MDS patients with transfusional iron 
overload. Br J Haematol 1996;94:288 -299. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8759889 . 
285. Jensen PD, Jensen FT, Christensen T, et al. Evaluation of 
myocardial iron by magnetic resonance imaging during iron chelation 
therapy with deferrioxamine: indication of close relation between 
myocardial iron content and chelatable iron pool. Blood 2003;101:4632-
4639. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12576333 . 
286. Nisbet -Brown E, Olivieri NF, Giardina PJ, et al. Effectiveness and 
safety of ICL670 in iron -loaded patients with thalassaemia: a randomised, 
double- blind, placebo- controlled, dose- escalation trial. Lancet 
2003;361:1597 -1602. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12747879 . 
287. Piga A, Galanello R, Forni GL, et al. Randomized phase II trial of 
deferasirox (Exjade, ICL670), a once -daily, orally -administered iron 
chelator, in comparison to deferoxamine in thalassemia patients with transfusional iron overload. Haematologica 2006;91:873- 880. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16818273 . 
288. Gattermann N, Finelli C, Porta MD, et al. Deferasirox in iron-overloaded patients with transfusion- dependent myelodysplastic 
syndromes: Results from the large 1 -year EPIC study. Leuk Res 
2010;34:1143 -1150. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20451251 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-64 289. Greenberg PL, Koller CA, Cabantchik ZI, et al. Prospective 
assessment of effects on iron- overload parameters of deferasirox therapy 
in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Leuk Res 2010;34:1560-1565. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20615548 . 
290. List AF, Baer MR, Steensma DP, et al. Deferasirox reduces serum 
ferritin and labile plasma iron in RBC transfusion- dependent patients with 
myelodysplastic syndrome. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:2134- 2139. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22547607 . 
291. Greenberg PL, Rigsby CK, Stone RM, et al. NCCN Task Force: 
Transfusion and iron overload in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. 
J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2009;7 Suppl 9:S1 -16. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20064286 . 
292. Drugs@FDA: FDA -Approved Drugs. U.S. Food & Drug 
Administration; Available at: https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/daf/index.cfm . Accessed 
December 6, 2024.  
293. Ko BS, Chang MC, Chiou TJ, et al. Long -term safety and efficacy of 
deferasirox in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, aplastic anemia 
and other rare anemia in Taiwan. Hematology 2019;24:247 -254. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30558522.  
294. Mannone L, Gardin C, Quarre MC, et al. High- dose darbepoetin 
alpha in the treatment of anaemia of lower risk myelodysplastic syndrome 
results of a phase II study. Br J Haematol 2006;133:513- 519. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16681638 . 
295. Musto P, Lanza F, Balleari E, et al. Darbepoetin alpha for the 
treatment of anaemia in low -intermediate risk myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Br J Haematol 2005;128:204- 209. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15638854 . 
296. Giraldo P, Nomdedeu B, Loscertales J, et al. Darbepoetin alpha for 
the treatment of anemia in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Cancer 2006;107:2807 -2816. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17115424 . 297. Stasi R, Abruzzese E, Lanzetta G, et al. Darbepoetin alfa for the 
treatment of anemic patients with low - and intermediate- 1-risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes. Ann Oncol 2005;16:1921- 1927. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16166176 . 
298. Hellstrom -Lindberg E, Ahlgren T, Beguin Y, et al. Treatment of 
anemia in myelodysplastic syndromes with granulocyte colony -stimulating 
factor plus erythropoietin: results from a randomized phase II study and 
long- term follow -up of 71 patients. Blood 1998;92:68- 75. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9639501 . 
299. Jadersten M, Malcovati L, Dybedal I, et al. Erythropoietin and granulocyte -colony stimulating factor treatment associated with improved 
survival in myelodysplastic syndrome. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:3607 -3613. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18559873.  
300. Park S, Grabar S, Kelaidi C, et al. Predictive factors of response and survival in myelodysplastic syndrome treated with erythropoietin and G -
CSF: the GFM experience. Blood 2008;111:574 -582. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17940203 . 
301. Kelaidi C, Beyne -Rauzy O, Braun T, et al. High response rate and 
improved exercise capacity and quality of life with a new regimen of 
darbepoetin alfa with or without filgrastim in lower -risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes: a phase II study by the GFM. Ann Hematol 2013;92:621- 631. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23358617.  
302. Tehranchi R, Fadeel B, Schmidt -Mende J, et al. Antiapoptotic role of 
growth factors in the myelodysplastic syndromes: concordance between in 
vitro and in vivo observations. Clin Cancer Res 2005;11:6291 -6299. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16144933.  
303. Kelaidi C, Park S, Brechignac S, et al. Treatment of myelodysplastic 
syndromes with 5q deletion before the lenalidomide era; the GFM 
experience with EPO and thalidomide. Leuk Res 2008;32:1049 -1053. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18191202.  
304. Greenberg PL, Sun Z, Miller KB, et al. Treatment of myelodysplastic 
syndromes patients with erythropoietin with or without granulocyte colony -PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-65 stimulating factor: results of a prospective randomized phase III trial by the 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (E1996). Blood 2009;114:2393 -
2400. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19564636 . 
305. Della Porta MG, Garcia- Manero G, Santini V, et al. Luspatercept 
versus epoetin alfa in erythropoiesis -stimulating agent -naive, transfusion-
dependent, lower -risk myelodysplastic syndromes (COMMANDS): Primary 
analysis of a phase 3, open- label, randomised, controlled trial. Lancet 
Haematol 2024;11:e646 -e658. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39038479 . 
306. Phurrough S, Jacques L, Ciccanti M, et al. Decision memo for 
erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESAs) for non- renal disease indications 
(CAG -00383N). Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 2007. 
Available at: http://www.cms.gov/medicare -coverage-
database/details/nca -decision-
memo.aspx?NCAId=203&ver=12&NcaName=Erythropoiesis+Stimulating+
Agents+&bc=BEAAAAAAIAAA&.  
307. Fenaux P, Ades L. How we treat lower -risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes. Blood 2013;121:4280- 4286. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23575446 . 
308. Fenaux P, Kiladjian JJ, Platzbecker U. Luspatercept for the treatment of anemia in myelodysplastic syndromes and primary myelofibrosis. Blood 
2019;133:790 -794. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30602619 . 
309. Fenaux P, Platzbecker U, Mufti GJ, et al. Luspatercept in patients 
with lower -risk myelodysplastic syndromes. N Engl J Med 2020;382:140 -
151. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31914241 . 
310. Suragani RN, Cadena SM, Cawley SM, et al. Transforming growth factor -beta superfamily ligand trap ACE -536 corrects anemia by promoting 
late-stage erythropoiesis. Nat Med 2014;20:408 -414. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24658078 . 
311. Garcia -Manero G, Mufti GJ, Fenaux P, et al. Neutrophil and platelet 
increases with luspatercept in lower -risk MDS: Secondary endpoints from the MEDALIST trial. Blood 2022;139:624- 629. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34758066 . 
312. Platzbecker U, Germing U, Gotze KS, et al. Luspatercept for the 
treatment of anaemia in patients with lower -risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes (PACE -MDS): a multicentre, open -label phase 2 dose- finding 
study with long- term extension study. Lancet Oncol 2017;18:1338 -1347. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28870615.  
313. Platzbecker U, Gotze KS, Kiewe P, et al. Long- term efficacy and 
safety of luspatercept for anemia treatment in patients with lower -risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes: The phase II PACE -MDS study. J Clin Oncol 
2022;40:3800 -3807. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35998303 . 
314. Steensma DP, Fenaux P, Van Eygen K, et al. Imetelstat achieves 
meaningful and durable transfusion independence in high transfusion-
burden patients with lower -risk myelodysplastic syndromes in a phase II 
study. J Clin Oncol 2021;39:48- 56. Available at:  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33108243 . 
315. Platzbecker U, Santini V, Fenaux P, et al. Imetelstat in patients with 
lower -risk myelodysplastic syndromes who have relapsed or are refractory 
to erythropoiesis -stimulating agents (IMerge): A multinational, randomised, 
double- blind, placebo- controlle d, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2024;403:249 -260. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38048786.  
316. Fenaux P, Mufti GJ, Hellstrom -Lindberg E, et al. Efficacy of 
azacitidine compared with that of conventional care regimens in the 
treatment of higher -risk myelodysplastic syndromes: a randomised, open-
label, phase III study. Lancet Oncol 2009;10:223- 232. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19230772 . 
317. Kantarjian H, Issa JP, Rosenfeld CS, et al. Decitabine improves 
patient outcomes in myelodysplastic syndromes: results of a phase III 
randomized study. Cancer 2006;106:1794 -1803. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16532500 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-66 318. Lubbert M, Suciu S, Baila L, et al. Low -dose decitabine versus best 
supportive care in elderly patients with intermediate-  or high- risk 
myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) ineligible for intensive chemotherapy: 
final results of the randomized phase III study of the European 
Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Leukemia Group and 
the German MDS Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:1987 -1996. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21483003.  
319. Silverman LR, Demakos EP, Peterson BL, et al. Randomized 
controlled trial of azacitidine in patients with the myelodysplastic 
syndrome: a study of the cancer and leukemia group B. J Clin Oncol 
2002;20:2429 -2440. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12011120 . 
320. Silverman LR, McKenzie DR, Peterson BL, et al. Further analysis of trials with azacitidine in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome: studies 
8421, 8921, and 9221 by the Cancer and Leukemia Group B. J Clin Oncol 
2006;24:3895 -3903. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16921040 . 
321. Silverman LR, Fenaux P, Mufti GJ, et al. Continued azacitidine 
therapy beyond time of first response improves quality of response in 
patients with higher -risk myelodysplastic syndromes. Cancer 
2011;117:2697 -2702. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21656747 . 
322. Lyons RM, Cosgriff TM, Modi SS, et al. Hematologic response to 
three alternative dosing schedules of azacitidine in patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:1850- 1856. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19255328 . 
323. Martin MG, Walgren RA, Procknow E, et al. A phase II study of 5 -day 
intravenous azacitidine in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Am J Hematol 2009;84:560 -564. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19650118 . 
324. Lubbert M, Wijermans P, Kunzmann R, et al. Cytogenetic responses in high- risk myelodysplastic syndrome following low -dose treatment with 
the DNA methylation inhibitor 5 -aza-2'-deoxycytidine. Br J Haematol 2001;114:349 -357. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11529854 . 
325. Wijermans P, Lubbert M, Verhoef G, et al. Low -dose 5 -aza-2'-
deoxycytidine, a DNA hypomethylating agent, for the treatment of high -risk 
myelodysplastic syndrome: a multicenter phase II study in elderly patients. 
J Clin Oncol 2000;18:956- 962. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10694544 . 
326. van den Bosch J, Lubbert M, Verhoef G, Wijermans PW. The effects of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (decitabine) on the platelet count in patients with 
intermediate and high- risk myelodysplastic syndromes. Leuk Res 
2004;28:785 -790. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15203276 . 
327. Saba HI, Lubbert M, Wijermans PW. Response rates of phase 2 and 
phase 3 trials of decitabine (DAC) in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes (MDS) [Abstract]. Blood 2005;106:Abstract 2515. Available at: 
http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/106/11/2515 . 
328. Kantarjian HM, O'Brien S, Shan J, et al. Update of the decitabine 
experience in higher risk myelodysplastic syndrome and analysis of 
prognostic factors associated with outcome. Cancer 2007;109:265 -273. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17133405.  
329. Kantarjian H, Oki Y, Garcia- Manero G, et al. Results of a randomized 
study of 3 schedules of low -dose decitabine in higher -risk myelodysplastic 
syndrome and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Blood 2007;109:52- 57. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16882708.  
330. Savona MR, Odenike O, Amrein PC, et al. An oral fixed- dose 
combination of decitabine and cedazuridine in myelodysplastic 
syndromes: a multicentre, open -label, dose -escalation, phase 1 study. 
Lancet Haematol 2019;6:e194- e203. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30926081 . 
331. Garcia -Manero G, Griffiths EA, Steensma DP, et al. Oral 
cedazuridine/decitabine for MDS and CMML: a phase 2 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic randomized crossover study. Blood PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-67 2020;136:674 -683. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32285126 . 
332. Garcia -Manero G, McCloskey J, Griffiths EA, et al. Oral decitabine -
cedazuridine versus intravenous decitabine for myelodysplastic 
syndromes and chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (ASCERTAIN): A 
registrational, randomised, crossover, pharmacokinetics, phase 3 study. 
Lancet Haematol 2024;11:e15- e26. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38135371 . 
333. Damaj G, Duhamel A, Robin M, et al. Impact of azacitidine before allogeneic stem -cell transplantation for myelodysplastic syndromes: a 
study by the Societe Francaise de Greffe de Moelle et de Therapie-
Cellulaire and the Groupe- Francophone des Myelodys plasies. J Clin 
Oncol 2012;30:4533 -4540. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23109707 . 
334. Field T, Perkins J, Huang Y, et al. 5 -Azacitidine for myelodysplasia 
before allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation. Bone Marrow 
Transplant 2010;45:255- 260. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19543327 . 
335. Gerds AT, Gooley TA, Estey EH, et al. Pretransplantation therapy 
with azacitidine vs induction chemotherapy and posttransplantation 
outcome in patients with MDS. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 
2012;18:1211 -1218. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22252125 . 
336. Lubbert M, Bertz H, Ruter B, et al. Non- intensive treatment with low -
dose 5- aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC) prior to allogeneic blood SCT of older 
MDS/AML patients. Bone Marrow Transplant 2009;44:585 -588. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19363531 . 
337. Kröger N, Sockel K, Wolschke C, et al. Comparison between 5-
azacytidine treatment and allogeneic stem -cell transplantation in elderly 
patients with advanced MDS according to donor availability (VidazaAllo 
study). J Clin Oncol 2021;39:3318 -3327. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34283629 . 338. Qin Y, Kuang P, Zeng Q, et al. Hypomethylating agents for patients 
with myelodysplastic syndromes prior to hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation: a systematic review and meta -analysis. Ann Hematol 
2019;98:2523 -2531. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31637485 . 
339. Festuccia M, Deeg HJ, Gooley TA, et al. Minimal identifiable disease 
and the role of conditioning intensity in hematopoietic cell transplantation 
for myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myelogenous leukemia evolving 
from myelodysplastic syndrome. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 
2016;22:1227 -1233. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27064057 . 
340. Santini V, Almeida A, Giagounidis A, et al. Randomized phase III 
study of lenalidomide versus placebo in RBC transfusion- dependent 
patients with lower -risk non -del(5q) myelodysplastic syndromes and 
ineligible for or refractory to erythropoiesis -stimulating agents. J Clin Oncol 
2016;34:2988 -2996. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27354480 . 
341. Fenaux P, Giagounidis A, Selleslag D, et al. A randomized phase 3 study of lenalidomide versus placebo in RBC transfusion- dependent 
patients with Low -/Intermediate- 1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes with 
del5q. Blood 2011;118:3765- 3776. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21753188 . 
342. Deeg HJ, Jiang PY, Holmberg LA, et al. Hematologic responses of patients with MDS to antithymocyte globulin plus etanercept correlate with 
improved flow scores of marrow cells. Leuk Res 2004;28:1177 -1180. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15380342.  
343. Molldrem JJ, Caples M, Mavroudis D, et al. Antithymocyte globulin for 
patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. Br J Haematol 1997;99:699- 705. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9401087.  
344. Garg R, Faderl S, Garcia- Manero G, et al. Phase II study of rabbit 
anti-thymocyte globulin, cyclosporine and granulocyte colony -stimulating 
factor in patients with aplastic anemia and myelodysplastic syndrome. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-68 Leukemia 2009;23:1297 -1302. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19242494 . 
345. Passweg JR, Giagounidis AA, Simcock M, et al. Immunosuppressive 
therapy for patients with myelodysplastic syndrome: a prospective 
randomized multicenter phase III trial comparing antithymocyte globulin 
plus cyclosporine with best supportive care --SAKK 33/99. J Clin Oncol 
2011;29:303 -309. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21149672 . 
346. Saunthararajah Y, Nakamura R, Nam JM, et al. HLA -DR15 (DR2) is 
overrepresented in myelodysplastic syndrome and aplastic anemia and 
predicts a response to immunosuppression in myelodysplastic syndrome. 
Blood 2002;100:1570 -1574. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12176872 . 
347. Scheinberg P, Nunez O, Weinstein B, et al. Horse versus rabbit antithymocyte globulin in acquired aplastic anemia. N Engl J Med 
2011;365:430 -438. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21812672 . 
348. Stadler M, Germing U, Kliche KO, et al. A prospective, randomised, 
phase II study of horse antithymocyte globulin vs rabbit antithymocyte 
globulin as immune -modulating therapy in patients with low -risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes. Leukemia 2004;18:460- 465. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14712285 . 
349. Alsultan A, Goldenberg NA, Kaiser N, et al. Tacrolimus as an 
alternative to cyclosporine in the maintenance phase of 
immunosuppressive therapy for severe aplastic anemia in children. Pediatr 
Blood Cancer 2009;52:626- 630. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19148946 . 
350. Macartney C, Freilich M, Odame I, et al. Complete response to tacrolimus in a child with severe aplastic anemia resistant to cyclosporin A. 
Pediatr Blood Cancer 2009;52:525 -527. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19058202 . 351. Townsley DM, Scheinberg P, Winkler T, et al. Eltrombopag added to 
standard immunosuppression for aplastic anemia. N Engl J Med 
2017;376:1540 -1550. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28423296 . 
352. Assi R, Garcia- Manero G, Ravandi F, et al. Addition of eltrombopag 
to immunosuppressive therapy in patients with newly diagnosed aplastic 
anemia. Cancer 2018;124:4192- 4201. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30307606 . 
353. List A, Kurtin S, Roe DJ, et al. Efficacy of lenalidomide in 
myelodysplastic syndromes. N Engl J Med 2005;352:549 -557. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15703420 . 
354. Nimer SD. Clinical management of myelodysplastic syndromes with 
interstitial deletion of chromosome 5q. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:2576 -2582. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16735711.  
355. Giagounidis A, Mufti GJ, Mittelman M, et al. Outcomes in RBC transfusion- dependent patients with Low -/Intermediate -1-risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes with isolated deletion 5q treated with lenalidomide: a subset analysis from the MDS -004 study. Eur J Haematol 
2014;93:429 -438. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24813620 . 
356. Kuendgen A, Lauseker M, List AF, et al. Lenalidomide does not increase AML progression risk in RBC transfusion- dependent patients with 
Low- or Intermediate -1-risk MDS with del(5q): a comparative analysis. 
Leukemia 2013;27:1072 -1079. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23257782 . 
357. Raza A, Reeves JA, Feldman EJ, et al. Phase 2 study of lenalidomide in transfusion- dependent, low -risk, and intermediate -1 risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes with karyotypes other than deletion 5q. Blood 2008;111:86 -93. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17893227 . 
358. Toma A, Kosmider O, Chevret S, et al. Lenalidomide with or without 
erythropoietin in transfusion- dependent erythropoiesis -stimulating agent -PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-69 refractory lower -risk MDS without 5q deletion. Leukemia 2016;30:897 -905. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26500139.  
359. List AF, Sun Z, Verma A, et al. Lenalidomide- epoetin alfa versus 
lenalidomide monotherapy in myelodysplastic syndromes refractory to 
recombinant erythropoietin. J Clin Oncol 2021;39:1001- 1009. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33439748 . 
360. Tricot G, Boogaerts MA. The role of aggressive chemotherapy in the 
treatment of the myelodysplastic syndromes. Br J Haematol 1986;63:477 -
483. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3730285 . 
361. Estey EH, Thall PF, Cortes JE, et al. Comparison of idarubicin + ara-C-, fludarabine + ara- C-, and topotecan + ara- C-based regimens in 
treatment of newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia, refractory anemia 
with excess blasts in transformation, or refr actory anemia with excess 
blasts. Blood 2001;98:3575- 3583. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11739159 . 
362. Sonneveld P, van Dongen JJ, Hagemeijer A, et al. High expression of 
the multidrug resistance P -glycoprotein in high- risk myelodysplasia is 
associated with immature phenotype. Leukemia 1993;7:963 -969. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8100604.  
363. Advani R, Saba HI, Tallman MS, et al. Treatment of refractory and 
relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia with combination chemotherapy 
plus the multidrug resistance modulator PSC 833 (Valspodar). Blood 
1999;93:787 -795. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9920827 . 
364. Wattel E, Solary E, Hecquet B, et al. Quinine improves results of intensive chemotherapy (IC) in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) 
expressing P -glycoprotein (PGP). Updated results of a randomized study. 
Groupe Francais des Myelodysplasies (GFM) and Groupe GOELAMS. Adv Exp Med Biol 1999;457:35- 46. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10500778 . 
365. Greenberg PL, Lee SJ, Advani R, et al. Mitoxantrone, etoposide, and 
cytarabine with or without valspodar in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia and high- risk myelodysplastic syndrome: a phase 
III trial (E2995). J Clin Oncol 2004;22:1078- 1086. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15020609 . 
366. Anderson JE, Appelbaum FR, Fisher LD, et al. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for 93 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. 
Blood 1993;82:677 -681. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8329721 . 
367. Barker JN, Weisdorf DJ, DeFor TE, et al. Transplantation of 2 
partially HLA -matched umbilical cord blood units to enhance engraftment 
in adults with hematologic malignancy. Blood 2005;105:1343 -1347. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15466923.  
368. De Witte T, Zwaan F, Hermans J, et al. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for secondary leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndrome: a 
survey by the Leukaemia Working Party of the European Bone Marrow 
Transplantation Group (EBMTG). Br J Haematol 1990;74:151 -155. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2180469.  
369. Demuynck H, Verhoef GE, Zachee P, et al. Treatment of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes with allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation from genotypically HLA -identical sibling and alternative 
donors. Bone Marrow Transplant 1996;17:745 -751. Availabl e at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8733692 . 
370. Jurado M, Deeg HJ, Storer B, et al. Hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation for advanced myelodysplastic syndrome after conditioning 
with busulfan and fractionated total body irradiation is associated with low 
relapse rate but considerable nonrelapse mortality. Biol Blood Marrow 
Transplant 2002;8:161- 169. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11939606 . 
371. Kerbauy DM, Chyou F, Gooley T, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplantation for chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Biol Blood Marrow 
Transplant 2005;11:713- 720. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16125642 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-70 372. Laughlin MJ, Eapen M, Rubinstein P, et al. Outcomes after 
transplantation of cord blood or bone marrow from unrelated donors in 
adults with leukemia. N Engl J Med 2004;351:2265- 2275. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15564543 . 
373. Luznik L, O'Donnell PV, Symons HJ, et al. HLA -haploidentical bone 
marrow transplantation for hematologic malignancies using 
nonmyeloablative conditioning and high- dose, posttransplantation 
cyclophosphamide. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 2008;14:641 -650. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18489989.  
374. Nevill TJ, Fung HC, Shepherd JD, et al. Cytogenetic abnormalities in 
primary myelodysplastic syndrome are highly predictive of outcome after 
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Blood 1998;92:1910 -1917. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9731047.  
375. Scott BL, Sandmaier BM, Storer B, et al. Myeloablative vs 
nonmyeloablative allogeneic transplantation for patients with 
myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myelogenous leukemia with 
multilineage dysplasia: a retrospective analysis. Leukemia 2006;20:128 -
135. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16270037 . 
376. Wallen H, Gooley TA, Deeg HJ, et al. Ablative allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation in adults 60 years of age and older. J 
Clin Oncol 2005;23:3439 -3446. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15824415 . 
377. Nakamura R, Saber W, Martens MJ, et al. Biologic assignment trial of 
reduced- intensity hematopoietic cell transplantation based on donor 
availability in patients 50 -75 years of age with advanced myelodysplastic 
syndrome. J Clin Oncol 2021;39:3328 -3339. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34106753 . 
378. Schroeder T, Wegener N, Lauseker M, et al. Comparison between upfront transplantation and different pretransplant cytoreductive treatment 
approaches in patients with high- risk myelodysplastic syndrome and 
secondary acute myelogenous leukemia. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 2019;25:1550 -1559. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30880268 . 379. Scott BL, Pasquini MC, Fei M, et al. Myeloablative versus reduced-
intensity conditioning for hematopoietic cell transplantation in acute 
myelogenous leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes -long- term follow-
up of the BMT CTN 0901 clinical trial. Transpl ant Cell Ther 2021;27:483 
e481- 483 e486. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33775615 . 
380. Fukumoto JS, Greenberg PL. Management of patients with higher 
risk myelodysplastic syndromes. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 2005;56:179 -
192. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15979321 . 
381. Garcia JS, Platzbecker U, Odenike O, et al. Efficacy and safety of 
venetoclax in combination with azacitidine for the treatment of patients 
with treatment -naive, higher -risk myelodysplastic syndromes [abstract]. 
Blood 2023;142:319. Available at: https://ashpublications.org/blood/article/142/Supplement%201/319/504371
/Efficacy -and-Safety -of-Venetoclax -in-Combination.  
382. Lachowiez CA, Loghavi S, Zeng Z, et al. A phase Ib/II study of 
ivosidenib with venetoclax +/ - azacitidine in IDH1 -mutated myeloid 
malignancies. Blood Cancer Discov 2023;4:276- 293. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37102976 . 
383. Zeidan AM, Pollyea DA, Garcia JS, et al. A phase 1b study evaluating the safety and efficacy of venetoclax as monotherapy or in 
combination with azacitadine for the treatment of relapsed/refractory 
myelodysplastic syndrome [abstract]. Blood 2019;134:A bstract 565. 
Available at: https://ashpublications.org/blood/article/134/Supplement_1/565/426344/A -
Phase- 1b-Study -Evaluating- the-Safety -and. 
384. Bazinet A, Darbaniyan F, Jabbour E, et al. Azacitidine plus 
venetoclax in patients with high- risk myelodysplastic syndromes or chronic 
myelomonocytic leukaemia: Phase 1 results of a single- centre, dose-
escalation, dose -expansion, phase 1- 2 study. Lanc et Haematol 
2022;9:e756 -e765. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36063832 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-71 385. Zeidan AM, Borate U, Pollyea DA, et al. A phase 1b study of 
venetoclax and azacitidine combination in patients with relapsed or 
refractory myelodysplastic syndromes. Am J Hematol 2023;98:272- 281. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36309981.  
386. Thol F, Weissinger EM, Krauter J, et al. IDH1 mutations in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes are associated with an unfavorable 
prognosis. Haematologica 2010;95:1668- 1674. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20494930 . 
387. Kosmider O, Gelsi -Boyer V, Slama L, et al. Mutations of IDH1 and 
IDH2 genes in early and accelerated phases of myelodysplastic 
syndromes and MDS/myeloproliferative neoplasms. Leukemia 
2010;24:1094 -1096. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20376084 . 
388. Patnaik MM, Hanson CA, Hodnefield JM, et al. Differential prognostic effect of IDH1 versus IDH2 mutations in myelodysplastic syndromes: a 
Mayo Clinic study of 277 patients. Leukemia 2012;26:101 -105. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22033490.  
389. DiNardo CD, Roboz GJ, Watts JM, et al. Final phase I substudy 
results of ivosidenib in patients with mutant IDH1 relapsed/refractory 
myelodysplastic syndrome Blood Adv 2024;8:4209- 4220. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38640348 . 
390. Cortes J, Yang J, Lee S, et al. Olutasidenib alone or in combination 
with azacitidine induces durable complete remissions in patients with 
mIDH1  myelodysplastic syndromes/neoplasms (MDS) [abstract]. Blood 
2023;142:1872. Available at: https://ashpublications.org/blood/article/142/Supplement%201/1872/50541
3/Olutasidenib- Alone- or-in-Combination- with. 
391. Montesinos P, Recher C, Vives S, et al. Ivosidenib and azacitidine in 
IDH1 -mutated acute myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2022;386:1519 -
1531. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35443108 . 
392. Sebert M, Cluzeau T, Rauzy OB, et al. Ivosidenib monotherapy is 
effective in patients with IDH1 mutated myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS): The Idiome phase 2 study by the GFM group [abstract]. Blood 
2021;138:Abstract 62. Available at: 
https://ashpublications.org/blood/article/138/Supplement%201/62/477527/I
vosidenib- Monotherapy -Is-Effective -in-Patients . 
393. Ades L, Dimicoli -Salazar S, Sebert M, et al. Enasidenib (ENA) is 
effective in patients with IDH2 mutated myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS): 
The Ideal phase 2 study by the GFM group [abstract]. Blood 
2021;138:Abstract 63. Available at: 
https://ashpublications.org/blood/article/138/Supplement%201/63/477536/
Enasidenib- ENA-Is-Effective -in-Patients -with-IDH2 . 
394. DiNardo CD, Venugopal S, Lachowiez C, et al. Targeted therapy with 
the mutant IDH2 inhibitor enasidenib for high- risk IDH2 -mutant 
myelodysplastic syndrome. Blood Adv 2023;7:2378- 2387. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35973199 . 
395. Sasaki K, Jabbour E, Montalban- Bravo G, et al. Low -dose decitabine 
versus low -dose azacitidine in lower -risk MDS. NEJM Evid 
2022;1:EVIDoa2200034. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38319837 . 
396. Platzbecker U, Wong RS, Verma A, et al. Safety and tolerability of eltrombopag versus placebo for treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients 
with advanced myelodysplastic syndromes or acute myeloid leukaemia: a 
multicentre, randomised, placebo- controll ed, double- blind, phase 1/2 trial. 
Lancet Haematol 2015;2:e417- 426. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26686043 . 
397. Oliva EN, Alati C, Santini V, et al. Eltrombopag versus placebo for 
low-risk myelodysplastic syndromes with thrombocytopenia (EQoL -MDS): 
phase 1 results of a single- blind, randomised, controlled, phase 2 
superiority trial. Lancet Haematol 2017;4:e127- e136. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28162984 . 
398. Revicki DA, Brandenburg NA, Muus P, et al. Health- related quality of 
life outcomes of lenalidomide in transfusion- dependent patients with Low - 
or Intermediate -1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes with a chromosome 5q PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-72 deletion: results from a randomized clinical trial. Leuk Res 2013;37:259 -
265. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23273538 . 
399. Oliva EN, Latagliata R, Lagana C, et al. Lenalidomide in International 
Prognostic Scoring System Low and Intermediate- 1 risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes with del(5q): an Italian phase II trial of health- related quality of 
life, safety and efficacy. Leuk  Lymphoma 2013;54:2458- 2465. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23432724 . 
400. Sperling AS, Gibson CJ, Ebert BL. The genetics of myelodysplastic syndrome: from clonal haematopoiesis to secondary leukaemia. Nat Rev 
Cancer 2017;17:5 -19. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27834397 . 
401. Moyo V, Lefebvre P, Duh MS, et al. Erythropoiesis -stimulating agents 
in the treatment of anemia in myelodysplastic syndromes: A meta-analysis. Ann Hematol 2008;87:527 -536. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18351340 . 
402. Casadevall N, Durieux P, Dubois S, et al. Health, economic, and 
quality -of-life effects of erythropoietin and granulocyte colony -stimulating 
factor for the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes: a randomized, controlled trial. Blood 2004;104:321 -327. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15054036 . 
403. Hellstrom -Lindberg E, Negrin R, Stein R, et al. Erythroid response to 
treatment with G -CSF plus erythropoietin for the anaemia of patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes: proposal for a predictive model. Br J 
Haematol 1997;99:344 -351. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9375752 . 
404. Spiriti MA, Latagliata R, Niscola P, et al. Impact of a new dosing regimen of epoetin alfa on quality of life and anemia in patients with low -
risk myelodysplastic syndrome. Ann Hematol 2005;84:167 -176. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15592833 . 
405. Negrin RS, Stein R, Doherty K, et al. Maintenance treatment of the 
anemia of myelodysplastic syndromes with recombinant human 
granulocyte colony -stimulating factor and erythropoietin: evidence for in vivo synergy. Blood 1996;87:4076 -4081. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8639764 . 
406. Hellstrom -Lindberg E. Efficacy of erythropoietin in the 
myelodysplastic syndromes: a meta- analysis of 205 patients from 17 
studies. Br J Haematol 1995;89:67 -71. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7833279 . 
407. Hellstrom -Lindberg E, Gulbrandsen N, Lindberg G, et al. A validated 
decision model for treating the anaemia of myelodysplastic syndromes 
with erythropoietin + granulocyte colony -stimulating factor: significant 
effects on quality of life. Br J Haematol  2003;120:1037- 1046. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12648074 . 
408. Fili C, Malagola M, Follo MY, et al. Prospective phase II Study on 5-
days azacitidine for treatment of symptomatic and/or erythropoietin 
unresponsive patients with low/INT- 1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes. Clin 
Cancer Res 2013;19:3297- 3308. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23596104 . 
409. Medeiros BC, Fathi AT, DiNardo CD, et al. Isocitrate dehydrogenase 
mutations in myeloid malignancies. Leukemia 2017;31:272 -281. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27721426.  
410. Alyea EP, Kim HT, Ho V, et al. Comparative outcome of nonmyeloablative and myeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplantation for patients older than 50 years of age. Blood 
2005;105:1810 -1814. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15459007 . 
411. Cutler CS, Lee SJ, Greenberg P, et al. A decision analysis of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for the myelodysplastic 
syndromes: delayed transplantation for low -risk myelodysplasia is 
associated with improved outcome. Blood 2004;104:579- 585. Av ailable at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15039286 . 
412. Laport GG, Sandmaier BM, Storer BE, et al. Reduced- intensity 
conditioning followed by allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for 
adult patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and myeloproliferative PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 2.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 2.2025  
Myelodysplastic Syndromes   
 
MS-73 disorders. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 2008;14:246- 255. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18215785 . 
413. McClune BL, Weisdorf DJ, Pedersen TL, et al. Effect of age on 
outcome of reduced- intensity hematopoietic cell transplantation for older 
patients with acute myeloid leukemia in first complete remission or with myelodysplastic syndrome. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1878- 1887. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20212255 . 
414. Kindwall -Keller T, Isola LM. The evolution of hematopoietic SCT in 
myelodysplastic syndrome. Bone Marrow Transplant 2009;43:597- 609. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19252532.  
415. Oliansky DM, Antin JH, Bennett JM, et al. The role of cytotoxic therapy with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in the therapy of 
myelodysplastic syndromes: an evidence- based review. Biol Blood 
Marrow Transplant 2009;15:137- 172. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19167676 . 
416. Deeg HJ, Sandmaier BM. Who is fit for allogeneic transplantation? 
Blood 2010;116:4762 -4770. Available at: 
http://bloodjournal.hematologylibrary.org/cgi/content/abstract/bloodjournal;
116/23/4762 . 
417. Sorror ML, Sandmaier BM, Storer BE, et al. Long- term outcomes 
among older patients following nonmyeloablative conditioning and 
allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for advanced hematologic 
malignancies. JAMA 2011;306:1874 -1883. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22045765 . 
418. Kroger N. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation for elderly patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. Blood 2012;119:5632- 5639. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22504927 . 
419. Bokhari SW, Watson L, Nagra S, et al. Role of HCT- comorbidity 
index, age and disease status at transplantation in predicting survival and 
non-relapse mortality in patients with myelodysplasia and leukemia 
undergoing reduced -intensity -conditioning hemopoeitic progenitor cell transplantation. Bone Marrow Transplant 2012;47:528- 534. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21743502 . 
420. Koreth J, Pidala J, Perez WS, et al. Role of reduced- intensity 
conditioning allogeneic hematopoietic stem -cell transplantation in older 
patients with de novo myelodysplastic syndromes: an international collaborative decision analysis. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:2662 -2670. Available 
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23797000 . 
421. Beran M, Shen Y, Kantarjian H, et al. High- dose chemotherapy in 
high- risk myelodysplastic syndrome: covariate -adjusted comparison of five 
regimens. Cancer 2001;92:1999- 2015. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11596013 . 
422. Gore SD, Fenaux P, Santini V, et al. A multivariate analysis of the relationship between response and survival among patients with higher -
risk myelodysplastic syndromes treated within azacitidine or conventional care regimens in the randomized AZA -001 trial. Haematologica 
2013;98:1067 -1072. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23585522 . 
423. Seymour JF, Fenaux P, Silverman LR, et al. Effects of azacitidine 
compared with conventional care regimens in elderly (≥ 75 years) patients 
with higher -risk myelodysplastic syndromes. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 
2010;76:218 -227. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20451404 . 
424. Kornblith AB, Herndon JE, 2nd, Silverman LR, et al. Impact of 
azacytidine on the quality of life of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome 
treated in a randomized phase III trial: a Cancer and Leukemia Group B 
study. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:2441- 2452. Av ailable at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12011121 . 
425. Thomas M. Health -Related Quality of Life for those with 
myelodysplastic syndrome: Conceptualization, measurement and 
implications. In: Greenberg PL, Editor, Myelodysplastic Syndromes: 
Clinical and Biological Advances: Cambridge University Press, 
Cambr idge, England; 2006:263- 295. 
 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:49:34 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.