Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)Primary Cutaneous 
Lymphomas
Version 3.2025 — June 10, 2025
ContinueNCCN.org
NCCN Guidelines for Patients® available at www.nccn.org/patientsNCCN recognizes the importance of clinical trials and encourages participation when applicable and available. 
Trials should be designed to maximize inclusiveness and broad representative enrollment.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Continue
NCCN Guidelines Panel Disclosuresξ		Bone	marrow	transplantation
ϖ	Dermatology
‡  Hematology/Hematology 
oncology
Þ Internal medicine
†  Medical oncology≠		Pathology
¥	Patient	advocacy
ʘ	Plastic	surgery
§  Radiotherapy/Radiation oncology 
*   Discussion Section Writing 
Committee MemberNCCN
Mary Dwyer, MS
Richard Howley, PhD
Hema Sundar, PhDBradley M. Haverkos, MD, MPH, MS † 
University of Colorado Cancer Center
Richard T. Hoppe, MD §  
Stanford Cancer Institute
Eric Jacobsen, MD † 
Dana-Farber/Brigham	and  
Women's Cancer Center
Deepa Jagadeesh, MD, MPH † ‡ 
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/  
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center 
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
Allison Jones, MD ϖ  
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital/The 
University of Tennessee Health Science Center
*Youn H. Kim, MD ϖ †  
Stanford Cancer Institute
Kiran Kumar, MD, MBA § 
UT Southwestern Simmons  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
*Neha Mehta-Shah, MD, MSCI † ‡ 
Siteman	Cancer	Center	at	Barnes-  
Jewish Hospital and Washington  
University School of Medicine
Elise A. Olsen, MD ϖ †  
Duke Cancer Institute
Dorothy Pan, MD † 
Roswell	Park	Comprehensive	Cancer	Center
Saurabh A. Rajguru, MD † ‡  
University of Wisconsin  
Carbone Cancer Center
Peter Riedell, MD ‡ 
The UChicago Medicine  
Comprehensive Cancer Center*Sima Rozati, MD, PhD ϖ  
Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center
Jonathan Said, MD ≠  
UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center 
Aaron Shaver, MD, PhD ≠  
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center
Lauren Shea, MD ‡ 
O'Neal	Comprehensive	Cancer	Center	at	UAB
*Michi M. Shinohara, MD ϖ ≠  
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
Matthew Stephany, MD ϖ  
Fred	&	Pamela	Buffett	Cancer	Center
Susan Thornton ¥  
Patient	advocate
Carlos Torres-Cabala, MD ≠ 
The University of Texas  
MD Anderson Cancer Center
Ryan Wilcox, MD, PhD † ‡  
University of Michigan  
Rogel Cancer Center
Peggy Wu, MD, MPH ϖ  
UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center 
Jasmine Zain, MD † ‡ 
City of Hope National Medical Center
Yumeng Zhang, MD ‡  
Moffitt Cancer Center*Steven M. Horwitz, MD/Chair † Þ  
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
*Stephen Ansell, MD, PhD/Vice-Chair ‡ 
Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center
Weiyun Z. Ai, MD, PhD † ‡  
UCSF Helen Diller Family  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Jeffrey Barnes, MD, PhD †  
Mass General Cancer Center
*Stefan K. Barta, MD, MRCP, MS † ‡  
Abramson Cancer Center  
at	the	University	of	Pennsylvania
Jonathan Brammer, MD ‡ 
The Ohio State University Comprehensive 
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  
and Solove Research Institute
Mark W. Clemens, MD ʘ 
The University of Texas 
MD Anderson Cancer Center
Utpal P. Davé, MD ‡ 
Indiana	University	Melvin	and	Bren	Simon	
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Ahmet Dogan, MD, PhD ≠  
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
Francine Foss, MD † ‡ ξ 
Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital
Zachary Frosch, MD, MSHP ‡ 
Fox Chase Cancer Center
Aaron M. Goodman, MD ‡ ξ  
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
Ahmad Halwani, MD ‡ 
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of UtahPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Find an NCCN Member Institution: 
https://www.nccn.org/home/member-
institutions .
NCCN Categories of Evidence and 
Consensus: All recommendations are 
category	2A 	unless	otherwise	specified.		
See NCCN Categories of Evidence  
and Consensus .
NCCN Categories of Preference:  
All recommendations are considered 
appropriate.
See NCCN	Categories	of	Preference .NCCN	Primary	Cutaneous	Lymphomas	Panel	Members
Summary of the Guidelines Updates
The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way . The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may not 
be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2025.Primary	Cutaneous	CD30+	 T-Cell	
Lymphoproliferative Disord ers 
• Principles	of	 Primary	Cutaneous	CD30+	
T-Cell Lymphoproliferative Disord ers 
(PCTLD/INTRO-1)
• Diagnosis	(PCTLD-1)
• Workup	(PCTLD-2)
• Primary	Cutaneous	 ALCL	(PCTLD-4)
• Lymphomatoid	Papulosis	(PCTLD-5)
• Therapy	References	(PCTLD-A)
Subcutaneous	Panniculitis-Like	 T-Cell	
Lymphoma
• Principles	for	Subcutaneous	Panniculitis-
Like	T-Cell	Lymphoma	(SPTCL-INTRO-1)
• Diagnosis	and	Workup	(SPTCL-1)
• SPTCL	with	HLH,	Systemic	Disease,	or	
High	Tumor	Burden	(SPTCL-2)
• SPTCL	Without	HLH	and	Low	 Tumor	
Burden	(SPTCL-3)
Principles	of	Radiation	 Therapy	(PCLYM-A)
Principles	of	Molecular	 Analysis	in	Primary 	
Cutaneous	Lymphomas	(PCLYM-B)
Supportive	Care	for	Patients	With	Cutaneous	
Lymphomas	(PCLYM-C)Primary	Cutaneous	B-Cell	Lymphomas
• Principles	of	 Primary	Cutaneous	B-Cell	Lymphomas	
(CUTB/INTRO)
• Diagnosis	and	Workup	(CUTB-1)
• Primary	Cutaneous	Marginal	Zone	Lymphoma	(CUTB-2)
• Primary	Cutaneous	Follicle	Center	Lymphoma	(CUTB-2)
• TNM	Classification	of	Cutaneous	Lymphoma	other	than	
MF/SS	(CUTB-A)
• Treatment	References	(CUTB-B)
Mycosis Fungoides/S ézary Syndrome (MF/SS)
• Principles	for	 Mycosis Fungoides/Sézary Syndrome  
(MFSS/INTRO-1)
• General	Principles	(MFSS/INTRO-2)
• Diagnosis (MFSS-1)
• Workup (MFSS-2)
• TNMB	Classification	and	Staging	(MFSS-3)
• Clinical	Staging	(MFSS-4)
• Stage	IA 	(Limited	Skin	Involvement	 Alone,	<10%	BSA)	
(MFSS-6)
• Stage	IB	(Skin	Only	Disease	with	≥10%	BSA)	-	Stage	IIA 	
(MFSS-7)
• Stage	IIB	(Tumor	Stage	Disease)	(MFSS-8)  
• Stage III (Erythrodermic Disease) (MFSS-10)
• Stage IV (MFSS-11)
• Large Cell Transformation (LCT) (MFSS-12)
• Suggested Treatment Regimens (MFSS-A)
• Supportive	Care	(MFSS-B)
• Principles	of	Phototherapy	(MFSS-C)Use of Immunophenotyping/Genetic 
Testing	in	Differential	Diagnosis	
of	Mature	B-Cell	and	NK/T-Cell	
Neoplasms ( See NCCN Guidelines 
for	B-Cell	Lymphomas	-	NHODG-A)
Classification	(ST-1)
Abbreviations	(ABBR-1)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESGlobal changes
• References updated throughout the guideline.
New algorithm
• Added	treatment	algorithm	for	Subcutaneous	Panniculitis-Like	 T-Cell	Lymphoma
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell Lymphomas
CUTB/INTRO-1
• Diagnosis
PCFCL
 ◊1st sub-bullet revised: ...; surface Ig light chain typically positive but cytoplasmic Ig light chain is negative. 
 ◊3rd	sub-bullet	revised:	PCFCL 	is	most	frequently	germinal	center	B-cell	(GCB)	subtype.	Germinal	(or	follicle)	center	phenotype	with	diffuse	large	cells	in	a	skin	
lesion is	may	still	be	consistent	with	PCFCL 	with	a	diffuse	population	of	large	cells	(PCFCL-LC)	and	should	not	be	considered	as	DLBCL .	PCFCL	can	also	present	
with	a	mixed	nodular/diffuse	or	purely	diffuse	pattern	that	similar	to	GCB	immunophenotype	that	can	be	easily	misdiagnosed	as	DLBCL.
PCDLBCL,	leg	type
 ◊1st	sub-bullet	revised:	...FOXP1,	IgM,	and	occasionally	MYC.	CD10	staining	is	usually	negative.	Immunophenotype	may	vary	with	poor	correlation	with	Hans	
algorithm,	but	most	cases	are	positive	for	MUM1	and	BCL2	with	variable	expression	of	other	markers.
 ◊Gene	expression	profiling:	PCDLBCL,	leg	type	has	been	demonstrated	to	be	most	commonly	activated	B-cell	(ABC)	subtype.	 Germinal	center	B-cell	(GCB)	
subtype	should	be	considered	PCFCL,	even	if	large	cells	are	present. 	Gain-of-function	mutations	in	MYD88	and	CD79B	co-occur	in	the	so-called	"MCD"	subtype,	
and	are	specific	to	PCDLBCL,	leg	type.
 ◊Sub-bullet	removed:	Fluorescence	in	situ	hybridization	(FISH):	frequently	shows	translocations	of	MYC,	BCL6,	and	IGH	genes.
CUTB-1
• Diagnosis
Useful in certain circumstances, 
 ◊1st	bullet,	1st	sub-bullet	modified:	...kappa/lambda,	MYC	(IHC	or	ISH)
 ◊3rd	sub-bullet	modified	by	adding:	FISH	for	BCL2	and	BCL6	rearrangements	if	MYC	(IHC	or	ISH)	is	positive
 ◊5th	bullet	added:	Next	generation	sequencing	(NGS)	for	MYD88	and	CD79B	mutations	(to	further	help	in	distinguishing	PC-DLBCL,	leg	type	from	PCFCL)
Footnote	d	added:	IgM	expression	should	be	checked	if	MYD88	mutations	are	identified	since	these	are	the	cases	likely	to	have	systemic	involvement.
CUTB-3
• Footnote	r	revised	from,	"An	FDA-approved	biosimilar	is	an	appropriate	substitute	for	rituximab"	to	"An	FDA-approved	biosimilar	is	an	appropriate	substitute	for	any	
recommended	systemic	biologic	therapy	in	the	NCCN	Guidelines."
ContinuedUpdates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas from Version 3.2024 include:Updates in Version 2.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas from Version 1.2025 include:
MS-1
• Discussion	sections	were	updated	to	reflect	changes	in	the	algorithm:	Primary	cutaneous	B-cell	Lymphomas,	Mycosis	Fungoides	and	Sezary	syndrome	and	
Primary	Cutaneous	CD30+	 T-Cell	Lymphoproliferative	Disorders.MS-1
• Discussion	section	added	for	Subcutaneous	Panniculitis-Like	 T-Cell	Lymphoma.Updates in Version 3.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas from Version 2.2025 include:PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESMycosis Fungoides/Sézary Syndrome
MFSS/INTRO-1
• Definition,	SS
2nd	sub-bullet	revised:	...TRBC1	may	contribute	in	detecting	clonality	and  is especially useful in cases where CD7 or CD26 are not lost) 	can	improve	the	specificity	of	
detecting Sezary cells when CD7 and CD26 are lost.
MFSS-1
• Diagnosis
Useful, 1st bullet, 
 ◊1st sub-bullet revised: Flow cytometry and molecular analysis 	to	assess	and	quantitate	an	expanded	 T-cell	population	with	aberrant	immunophenotype
 –1st	sub-bullet:	 Text	revised	to	include	 TRBC1	to	flow	cytometry	panel	and	moved	from	footnote	g,	Flow	cytometry	panel	may	include	CD3,	CD4,	CD7,	CD8,	
CD26,	CD45,	 TRBC1	to	assess	for	expanded	CD4+	cells	with	increased	CD4/CD8	ratio	or	with	abnormal	immunophenotype,	including	loss	of	CD7	or	CD26.
 ◊2nd	sub-bullet	revised:	Sézary	cell	preparation	is	less	useful	than	flow	cytometry	due	to	the	subjective	nature	of	the	process	but	may	still	be	useful	in	cases	where	
an aberrant immunophenotype is not detected.
Footnote	g	revised:	 TRBC1	may	contribute	in	detecting	clonality	and	 is especially useful in cases where CD7 or CD26 are not lost  can	improve	the	specificity	of	
detecting Sezary cells when CD7 and CD26 are lost.
MFSS-A	(4	of	12)
• Treatment Considerations
10th	statement	modified:	LCT-MF was not an exclusion criteria for Study 302, which evaluated a reformulated version of denileukin diftitox, but no patients with LCT-
MF were enrolled in the study . (Also for MFSS-A 5 of 12 and MFSS-A 6 of 12).
MFSS-A	(9	of	12)
• Footnote	c	revised:	In	the	 ALCANZA 	trial,	brentuximab	vedotin	was	associated	with	superior	clinical	outcome	in	patients	with	previously	treated	CD30+	MF	(CD30	
positivity	was	defined	as	CD30	expression	in	≥10%	of	total	lymphoid	cells).	 In other clinical studies, clinical responses with brentuximab vedotin have been reported 
across all CD30 expression levels including negligible CD30 expression.  Interpretation of CD30 expression is not universally standardized. Responses have been 
seen in patients with a low level of CD30 positivity and any level of CD30 positivity is acceptable for the use of brentuximab vedotin.
MFSS-B	(1	of	2)
• Infections, Erythroderma
6th bullet added: IV broad-spectrum antibiotics for S. aureus infection
MFSS-C
• Principles	of	Phototherapy	added.	
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T-Cell Lymphoproliferative Disorders
PCTLD-4
• Footnote	w	revised:	Peginterferon	 alfa-2a is the only interferon available for clinical use in the US and it  may be substituted for other interferon preparations...
ContinuedUpdates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas from Version 3.2024 include:PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATESPrinciples of Radiation Therapy 
PCLYM-A 2 of 3
• General dose guidelines
PCMZL	and	PCFCL,1st	bullet	modified:	 Alternatively,	lower	doses	(eg,	4	Gy)	may	be	used	initially,	with	supplemental	RT 	(4–20	Gy)	for	inadequate	response	or	
subsequent	local	relapse	 though data with this approach are limited.
MF/SS
 ◊Treatment	of	individual	patches,	plaques	or	tumors,	1st	sub-bullet	modified:	Optimal	management	for	individual	plaque	and	tumor	lesions	is	with	EBRT,	8–12	Gy	
given	with	palliative	intent	(usually	as	combined	modality	therapy;		8	Gy	may	be	given	in	1–2	fractions).	Even	lower	doses	(4	Gy)	may	achieve	a	similar	response,	
but it may be less durable.  Low-dose local RT (8–12 Gy) is given with palliative intent (usually as combined modality therapy). Some Member Institutions are 
exploring the use of lower dose options (eg, 4 Gy). Up to 8 Gy can be given in a single fraction, although lower dose per fraction (3–5 Gy) may be preferred 
depending on skin condition, irradiation volume, and prior RT.
PCLYM-A 3 of 3
• General dose guidelines 
Added:	SPTCL 	-	RT	for	curative	treatment:	36-45	Gy
PMLYM-C
• Page	reorganized	by	Viral	reactivation	and	 Anti-infective	prophylaxis.	
CMV reactivation
 ◊1st sub-bullet revised: Clinicians must be aware of the high risk of CMV reactivation in patients receiving alemtuzumab (anti-CD52 antibody).
 ◊4th	sub-bullet	added:	Consultation	with	an	infectious	disease	expert	may	be	necessary.
• Anti-infective prophylaxis
1st sub-bullet revised: Recommended during treatment and thereafter (if tolerated) for patients receiving alemtuzumab (anti-CD52 antibody)Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas from Version 3.2024 include:PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell LymphomasNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CUTB/INTRO-1Overview & Definition
Three subtypes of PCBCL:
1. Primary cutaneous follicle center lymphoma (PCFCL)
• Most common subtype of PCBCL (57%),1,2 located primarily in the scalp, face, forehead, and trunk, usually with indolent course and excellent 
prognosis (5-year overall survival [OS] rate is >95%).
• Typically presents as solitary, firm, and pink to violaceous papules, nodules, plaques, or tumors. Multifocal skin lesions are seen in 15% of cases.1,2 
Ulceration is rare.
• Dissemination to extracutaneous sites is extremely uncommon; cutaneous recurrences occur near the initial site in approximately 30% of cases.
2. Primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma (PCMZL) (WHO5)/Primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoproliferative disorder (ICC)
• Second most common subtype of PCBCL (24%–31%)1 with distribution primarily on the trunk, upper extremities, and head. Typically presents as 
solitary or multiple erythematous to violaceous papules, small nodules, plaques, or tumors with indolent course and excellent prognosis (5-year 
survival rate is 99%).
• Relapses in the skin occur in 50% of patients.
3. Primary cutaneous diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (PCDLBCL, leg type)
• The rarest subtype of PCBCL (11%–19%), constituting 4% of all primary cutaneous lymphomas. It is distributed mostly to the leg, but not 
uncommonly (10%–15%) can be found in other sites.1
• Typical clinical presentation is red to bluish plaques or tumors located on one or both legs that can ulcerate.
• It is usually aggressive and associated with a poor prognosis (high frequency of extracutaneous relapses) (5-year OS rate is 50%).2,3
• Multiple skin lesions, inactivation of CDKN2A , and MYD88 L265P associated with inferior prognosis.PRINCIPLES FOR PRIMARY CUTANEOUS B-CELL LYMPHOMAS (PCBCL)
Continued
References on CUTB/INTRO-APLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell LymphomasNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CUTB/INTRO-2Diagnosis
• PCFCL: punch biopsy/incision/excision of skin lesion preferred to shave biopsy 
Immunophenotype – cells express CD20, CD79a, and BCL6; surface Ig light chain typically positive but cytoplasmic Ig light chain is negative. CD10 can 
be negative in cases with diffuse growth pattern. BCL2 is usually negative, or minimally expressed.
When CD10 and BCL2 are strongly expressed, or BCL2 is rearranged, consider a nodal follicular lymphoma (FL) with secondary skin involvement.
PCFCL is most frequently germinal center B-cell (GCB) subtype.4 Germinal (or follicle) center phenotype with diffuse large cells in a skin lesion may still 
be consistent with PCFCL PCFCL can also present with a mixed nodular/diffuse or purely diffuse pattern that is similar to GCB immunophenotype, which 
can be easily misdiagnosed as DLBCL.
• PCMZL: punch biopsy/incision/excision of skin lesion preferred to shave biopsy
Immunophenotype – cells are negative for CD10 and BCL6, but are often positive for BCL2, CD20, and CD79a. IgG4 can be expressed in about a third of 
cases.
Can be divided into 2 groups with different prognosis based on the immunoglobulin heavy chain IgH gene rearrangement: 1) CXCR3-negative and Ig 
class-switched subtype (IgG, IgA, and IgE), characterized by nodular infiltrates of plasma cells; and 2) a less common subtype that is CXCR3-positive 
and IgM positive (non class-switched), which may have extracutaneous extension.5-8 IgG class-switched subtype is a clonal chronic lymphoproliferative 
disorder (LPD), with indolent course.8,9
• PCDLBCL, leg type: punch biopsy/incision/excision of skin lesion preferred to shave biopsy 
Immunophenotype – cells express CD20, CD79a, monotypic immunoglobulins, BCL2 (strong), IRF/MUM1, FOXP1, IgM, and occasionally MYC. CD10 
staining is usually negative. Immunophenotype may vary with poor correlation with Hans algorithm, but most cases are positive for MUM1 and BCL2 with 
variable expression of other markers.
Gene expression profiling: PCDLBCL, leg type has been demonstrated to be most commonly activated B-cell (ABC) subtype. Gain-of-function mutations 
in MYD88 and CD79B  co-occur in the so-called "MCD" subtype, and are specific to PCDLBCL, leg type.4
General Principles
• PCFCL, PCMZL: If the pathology or clinical presentation is not typical, complete staging with chest/abdomen/pelvis C T and/or FDG-PET/
CT scan to rule out systemic involvement. Low-dose localized radiation therapy (RT), topical or intralesional steroids, or observation are 
excellent treatment options.
• PCDLBCL, leg type: Complete staging with FDG-PET/CT scan. Treat with chemoimmunotherapy and localized RT. (See NCCN Guidelines for 
B-Cell Lymphomas - DLBCL)PRINCIPLES FOR PRIMARY CUTANEOUS B-CELL LYMPHOMAS (PCBCL)
References on CUTB/INTRO-APLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell LymphomasNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CUTB/INTRO-A1 Willemze	R,	Cerroni	L,	Kempf	W,	et	al.	 The	2018	update	of	the	WHO-EORTC	classification	for	primary	cutaneous	lymphomas.	Blood	2019;133:1703-1714.
2 Zinzani	PL,	Quaglino	P,	Pimpinelli	N,	et	al.	Prognostic	factors	in	primary	cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma:	the	Italian	Study	Group	for	Cutaneous	Lymphomas.	J	Clin	Oncol	
2006;24:1376-1382.
3 Felcht	M,	Klemke	CD,	Nicolay	JP,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	diffuse	large	B-cell	lymphoma,	NOS	and	leg	type:	Clinical,	morphologic	and	prognostic	differences.	J	Dtsch	
Dermatol	Ges	2019;17:275-285.
4	Zhang	Y,	LeWitt	TM,	Louissaint	 A	Jr,	et	al.	Disease-defining	molecular	features	of	primary	cutaneous	B-cell	lymphomas:	Implications	for	classification	and	treatment.	J	
Invest	Dermatol	2023;143:189-196.
5 van	Maldegem	F,	van	Dijk	R,	Wormhoudt	 TA,	et	al.	The	majority	of	cutaneous	marginal	zone	B-cell	lymphomas	expresses	class-switched	immunoglobulins	and	
develops	in	a	 T-helper	type	2	inflammatory	environment.	Blood	2008;112:3355-3361.
6 Edinger	JT,	Kant	JA,	Swerdlow	SH.	Cutaneous	marginal	zone	lymphomas	have	distinctive	features	and	include	2	subsets.	 Am	J	Surg	Pathol	2010;34:1830-1841.
7 Kogame T, Takegami T, Sakai TR, et al. Immunohistochemical analysis of class-switched subtype of primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma in terms of inducible 
skin-associated	lymphoid	tissue.	J	Eur	 Acad	Dermatol	Venereol	2019;33:e401-e403.
8	Carlsen	ED,	Swerdlow	SH,	Cook	JR,	Gibson	SE.	Class-switched	primary	cutaneous	marginal	zone	lymphomas	are	frequently	IgG4-positive	and	have	features	distinct	
from	IgM-positive	cases.	 Am	J	Surg	Pathol	2019;43:1403-1412.
9	Gibson	SE,	Swerdlow	SH.	How	I	diagnose	primary	cutaneous	marginal	zone	lymphoma.	 Am	J	Clin	Pathol	2020;154:428-449.PRINCIPLES FOR PRIMARY CUTANEOUS B-CELL LYMPHOMAS (PCBCL)
REFERENCESPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell LymphomasNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CUTB-1DIAGNOSISa,bWORKUP
a A multidisciplinary team approach involving hematology/oncology, dermatology, 
pathology (with expertise in cutaneous lymphoma), and radiation oncology is often 
optimal	for	the	diagnosis	and	management	of	patients	with	PCBCL
b For	non-cutaneous	extranodal	B-cell	lymphomas, 	see	Extranodal	MZL 	of	Nongastric	
Sites	in	the	NCCN	Guidelines	for	B-Cell	Lymphomas . A germinal (or follicle) 
center	phenotype	and	large	cells	in	a	skin	lesion	is	not	equivalent	to	DLBCL 	but	is	
consistent with primary cutaneous germinal/follicle center lymphoma.
c Use of Immunophenotyping/Genetic Testing in Differential Diagnosis of Mature 
NK/T-Cell Neoplasms ( See NCCN Guidelines for T-Cell Lymphomas ).d IgM expression should be checked if MYD88 mutations are identified since 
these are the cases likely to have systemic involvement.
e Rule out drug-induced cutaneous lymphoid hyperplasia. 
f Often reserved for patients with unexplained cytopenias or if there is clinical 
suspicion	of	other	subtypes	(eg,	PC-DLBCL,	leg	type).
g Hepatitis	B	testing	is	indicated	because	of	the	risk	of	reactivation	with	
immunotherapy	+	chemotherapy.	See	monoclonal	antibody	and	viral	reactivation	
in the NCCN	Guidelines	B-Cell	Lymphomas .	Tests	include	hepatitis	B	surface	
antigen and core antibody for a patient with no risk factors. For patients with risk 
factors	or	previous	history	of	hepatitis	B,	add	e-antigen.	If	positive,	check	viral	
load and consult with a gastroenterologist.
h Fertility preservation options include: sperm banking, semen cryopreservation, 
in vitro fertilization (IVF), or ovarian tissue or oocyte cryopreservation.ESSENTIAL:
• Biopsy of suspicious skin sites
Multiple biopsies may be necessary to capture the 
pathologic variability of disease at diagnosis
• Review of a sufficient number of slides with adequate 
material to perform a comprehensive workup as described 
below and/or at least one paraffin block representative of 
the tumor should be done by a pathologist with expertise 
in the diagnosis of  PCBCL. Rebiopsy if pathological 
findings are non-diagnostic and/or discordant with the 
clinical presentation
• Adequate biopsy ( by punch, incisional, excisional) of all 
types of clinical lesions present will aid in final diagnosis
• Adequate immunophenotyping to establish diagnosisc
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) panel may include: CD20, 
CD3, CD10, BCL2, BCL6, IRF4/MUM1
USEFUL IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES: 
• Additional immunohistochemical studies to establish 
lymphoma subtype
IHC panel may include: Ki-67, CD5, CD43, CD21, CD23, 
cyclin D1, kappa/lambda, MYC (IHC or ISH)
Assessment of IgM,d IgD, and FOXP1 e xpression (to 
further help in distinguishing PC-DLBCL, leg type from 
PCFCL)
• EBER-ISH 
• Cytogenetics (FISH and karyotype): t(14;18) if systemic FL 
is suspected; FISH for BCL2 and BCL6 rearrangements if 
MYC (IHC or ISH) is positive
• If adequate biopsy material is  available, flow cytometry or 
molecular analysis to detect IgH gene rearrangement can 
be useful in determining B-cell clonality
• Next generation sequencing (NGS) for MYD88d and CD79B  
mutations (to further help in distinguishing PC-DLBCL, leg 
type from PCFCL)ESSENTIALe:
• History and physical exam, including complete 
skin exam
• CBC with differential
• Comprehensive metabolic panel 
• Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)
• Chest/abdominal/pelvic CT with contrast 
and/or FDG-PET/CT scan (may be omitted if 
clinically indicated)
• Pregnancy testing in patients of childbearing 
potential (if chemotherapy or RT planned)
USEFUL IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES:
• Bone marrow biopsyf
• Peripheral blood flow cytometry, if complete 
blood count (CBC) demonstrates lymphocytosis
• SPEP/quantitative immunoglobulins for PCMZL
• HIV testing
• Hepatitis B and C testingg
• Discuss fertility preservationhPCMZL (CUTB-2)
PCFCL (CUTB-2)
PC-DLBCL, Leg 
Type (See NCCN 
Guidelines for B-Cell 
Lymphomas - DLBCL)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell LymphomasNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CUTB-2PRIMARY CUTANEOUS MARGINAL ZONE LYMPHOMA OR FOLLICLE CENTER LYMPHOMAi
STAGEjINITIAL THERAPYk
i Additional	imaging	studies	during	the	course	of	treatment	are	not	needed.	FDG-PET/CT  or	C/A/P	CT	with	contrast	at	the	end	of	treatment	may be needed to assess 
response  or if there is clinical suspicion of progressive disease.
j TNM	Classification	of	Cutaneous	Lymphoma	other	than	MF/SS	(CUTB-A).
k Treatment	References	(CUTB-B) .
l Local ISRT is the preferred initial treatment, but not necessarily the preferred treatment for relapse. See Principles	of	Radiation	 Therapy	(PCLYM-A).
m When ISRT or surgical treatment is neither feasible nor desired.
n Small lesions may be excised with minimal non-disfiguring surgery.
o There are case reports showing efficacy of skin-directed therapies , which include topical	steroids,	imiquimod,	nitrogen	mustard,	and	bexarotene	(useful	in	pediatric	
patients).Extracutaneous 
diseaseSolitary/regional, 
T1–2 Local ISRT (preferred)l
In selected cases:
Observationm 
or
Excisionn
or
Skin-directed 
therapieso
or 
Intralesional steroidsResponsei
Refractory 
diseaseiRelapsed or 
progressive 
diseaseiRegional
Generalized disease 
(extracutaneous 
disease)
Generalized 
disease (skin 
only)PCFCL, manage 
as Follicular 
Lymphoma in the  
NCCN Guidelines 
for B-Cell 
Lymphomas 
(FOLL-4)
or 
PCMZL, manage 
as Nodal 
Marginal Zone 
Lymphoma in the  
NCCN Guidelines 
for B-Cell 
Lymphomas 
(NMZL-2)Observe
For PCFCL, manage as Follicular Lymphoma in the  NCCN 
Guidelines for B-Cell Lymphomas (FOLL-4)
or 
For PCMZL, manage as Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma in 
the NCCN Guidelines for B-Cell Lymphomas (NODE-2)Generalized  
disease (skin only), 
T3CUTB-3Generalized disease 
(skin only), T3 
(CUTB-3)
Generalized disease 
(skin only), T3 
(CUTB-3)RESPONSE/ADDITIONAL THERAPYPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell LymphomasNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CUTB-3i Additional imaging studies during the course of treatment are not needed. FDG-
PET/CT  or	C/A/P	CT	with	contrast	at	the	end	of	treatment	may be needed to 
assess response  or if there is clinical suspicion of progressive disease.
j TNM	Classification	of	Cutaneous	Lymphoma	other	than	MF/SS	(CUTB-A).
k Treatment	References	(CUTB-B) .
l Local ISRT is the preferred initial treatment, but not necessarily the preferred 
treatment for relapse. See Principles	of	Radiation	 Therapy	(PCLYM-A).
o There are case reports showing efficacy of skin-directed therapies , which include 
topical	steroids,	imiquimod,	nitrogen	mustard,	and	bexarotene	(useful	in	pediatric	
patients).
p Considered appropriate in asymptomatic patients.q	See monoclonal antibody and viral reactivation in the NCCN Guideline s for B-Cell	
Lymphomas .
r Rituximab and hyaluronidase human injection for subcutaneous use may be 
substituted for rituximab after patients have received the first full dose of rituximab 
by intravenous infusion. This substitution cannot be made for rituximab used 
in combination with ibritumomab tiuxetan.  An FDA-approved biosimilar is an 
appropriate substitute for any recommended systemic biologic therapy in the 
NCCN Guidelines.
s In rare circumstances for very extensive or refractory disease, other combination 
chemoimmuno therapy regimens listed in 	NCCN	Guidelines	for	B-Cell	
Lymphomas,	FOLL-B can be used.Generalized disease 
(skin only), T3Observationp
or
Skin-directed therapieso
or
Local ISRTl
or
Intralesional steroids
or
Rituximabq,r
or
Other systemic therapys Responsei
Refractory 
diseaseiRelapsed or 
progressive 
diseasei
Alternate regimen not 
used for initial therapy Generalized disease 
(skin only)
Generalized disease 
(extracutaneous 
disease)ObservePCFCL, manage 
as Follicular 
Lymphoma in the  
NCCN Guidelines 
for B-Cell 
Lymphomas 
(FOLL-4)
or 
PCMZL, manage 
as Nodal 
Marginal Zone 
Lymphoma in the  
NCCN Guidelines 
for B-Cell 
Lymphomas 
(NMZL-2)PRIMARY CUTANEOUS MARGINAL ZONE LYMPHOMA OR FOLLICLE CENTER LYMPHOMAi
STAGEjINITIAL THERAPYkRESPONSE/ADDITIONAL THERAPYPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell LymphomasNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CUTB-A 
1 OF 2a This	work	was	originally	published	in	Blood.	Olsen	EA,	Whittaker	S,	Willemze	R,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	lymphoma:	recommendations	for	clinical	trial	design	and	
staging	update	from	the	ISCL,	USCLC,	and	EORTC.	Blood	2022;140:419-437.	©	 The	American	Society	of	Hematology.
b For definition of body regions, see Body	Regions	for	the	Designation	of	 T	(Skin	Involvement)	Category	(CUTB-A 	2	of	2).
c Definition	of	lymph	node	regions	is	consistent	with	the	 Ann	Arbor	system:	Peripheral	sites:	antecubital,	cervical,	supraclavicular,	axillary,	inguinal-femoral,	and	
popliteal. Central sites: mediastinal, pulmonary hilar, paraaortic, and iliac.TNM CLASSIFICATION OF CUTANEOUS LYMPHOMA OTHER THAN MF/SSa,b
TNM Size/location of lesions
T
T0*Absence of clinically suspicious lesions
T1
   Solitary lesionT1ASolitary lesion <5 cm diameter
T1BSolitary ≥5 cm diameter
T2
   
  Multiple lesions limited to 1 body 
region or 2 contiguous body regionsbT2AAll disease encompassing in a <15-cm-diameter circular area
T2BAll disease encompassing a 15 to <30 cm diameter circular area
T2CAll disease encompassing a ≥30 cm diameter circular area
T3
  Generalized skin involvementT3AMultiple lesions involving 2 noncontiguous body regionsb
T3BMultiple lesions involving ≥3 body regionsb
N 
N0No clinical or pathologic LN involvement
N1 Involvement of 1 peripheral LN regionc that drains an area of current or prior skin involvement: biopsy positive for lymphoma
N2 Involvement of >2 peripheral LN regionsc or involvement of any LN region that does not drain an area of current or prior skin 
involvement: biopsy positive for lymphoma
N3Involvement of central lymph nodes: biopsy positive for lymphoma
NXClinically abnormal peripheral or central LN but no pathologic determination. Other surrogate means of determining involvement 
may be determined by Tri-Society consensus
M
M0No visceral involvement
M1Visceral involvement
MXVisceral	involvement	is	neither	confirmed	nor	refuted	by	available	pathologic	or	imaging	assessmentPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell LymphomasNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
a This	work	was	originally	published	in	Blood.	Olsen	EA,	Whittaker	S,	Willemze	R,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	lymphoma:	recommendations	for	clinical	trial	design	and	
staging	update	from	the	ISCL,	USCLC,	and	EORTC.	Blood	2022;140:419-437.	©	 The	American	Society	of	Hematology.
d Left and right extremities are assessed as separate body regions. The designation of these body regions is based on regional lymph node drainage patterns.
e Definition of body regions: Head and neck (HN), inferior borders = clavicles anterior and T1 spinous process posterior; left upper arm (LUA), superior border = glenohumeral 
joint (exclusive of axilla), inferior border = ulnar/radial/humeral (elbow) joint; left lower arm and hand (LLAH), superior border = ulnar/radial/humeral (elbow) joint; right upper 
arm (RUA), superior border = glenohumeral joint (exclusive of axilla), inferior border = ulnar/radial/humeral (elbow) joint; right lower arm and hand (RLAH), superior border 
= ulnar/radial/humeral (elbow) joint; chest (C), superior border = superior border clavicles, inferior border = inferior margin rib cage, lateral borders = midaxillary lines and 
glenohumeral joints (inclusive of axilla); abdomen/genital (AG), superior border = inferior margin rib cage, inferior border = inguinal folds and anterior perineum; upper back 
(UB),	superior	border	=	 T1	spinous	process,	inferior	border	=	inferior	margin	rib	cage,	lateral	borders	=	midaxillary	lines;	lower	back/buttocks	(LBB),	superior	border	=	inferior 	
margin rib cage, inferior border = inferior gluteal fold and anterior perineum (inclusive of perineum), lateral borders = midaxillary lines; left upper leg (LUL), superior border = 
inguinal	fold	and	gluteal	folds,	inferior	border	=	midpatella	anterior	and	mid–popliteal	fossa	posterior;	left	lower	leg	and	foot	(LLLF),	superior	border	=	midpatella	anterior	and 	
mid–popliteal	fossa	posterior;	right	upper	leg	(RUL),	superior	border	=	inguinal	fold	and	gluteal	folds,	inferior	border	=	midpatella	anterior	and	mid–popliteal	fossa	posterior; 	
right	lower	leg	and	foot	(RLLF),	superior	border	=	midpatella	anterior,	and	mid–popliteal	fossa	posterior.BODY REGIONS FOR THE DESIGNATION OF T (SKIN INVOLVEMENT) CATEGORYa,d,e
CUTB-A 
2 OF 2
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous B-Cell LymphomasNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CUTB-BTREATMENT REFERENCES
Skin-directed therapies
Topical/intralesional corticosteroids
Bekkenk	MW,	Vermeer	MH,	Geerts	ML,	et	al.	 Treatment	of	multifocal	primary	
cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma:	a	clinical	follow-up	study	of	29	patients.	J	Clin	Oncol	
1999;17:2471-2478.
Perry	A,	Vincent	BJ,	Parker	SR.	Intralesional	corticosteroid	therapy	for	primary	
cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma.	Br	J	Dermatol	2010;163:223-225.
Topical nitrogen mustard
Bachmeyer	C,	Orlandini	V,	 Aractingi	S.	 Topical	mechlorethamine	and	clobetasol	
in	multifocal	primary	cutaneous	marginal	zone-B	cell	lymphoma.	B	J	Dermatol	
2006;154:1207-1209.
Topical bexarotene
Trent	JT,	Romanelli	P,	Kerdel	FA.	 Topical	targretin	and	intralesional	interferon	alfa	
for	cutaneous	lymphoma	of	the	scalp.	 Arch	Dermatol	2002;138:1421-1423.
Topical imiquimod
Coors	EA,	Schuler	G,	Von	Den	Driesch	P.	 Topical	imiquimod	as	treatment	for	
different	kinds	of	cutaneous	lymphoma.	Eur	J	Dermatol	2006;16:391-393.
Stavrakoglou	 A,	Brown	VL,	Coutts	I.	Successful	treatment	of	primary	cutaneous	
follicle	centre	lymphoma	with	topical	5%	imiquimod.	Br	J	Dermatol	2007;157:620-
622.
Rituximab
Morales	AV,	Advani	R,	Horwitz	SM,	et	al.	Indolent	primary	cutaneous	B-cell	
lymphoma: experience using systemic rituximab. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2008;59:953-957.
Heinzerling LM, Urbanek M, Funk JO, et al. Reduction of tumor burden and 
stabilization of disease by systemic therapy with anti-CD20 antibody (rituximab) 
in	patients	with	primary	cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma.	Cancer	2000;89:1835-1844.
Valencak J, Weihsengruber F, Rappersberger K, et al. Rituximab monotherapy for 
primary	cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma:	Response	and	follow-up	in	16	patients.	 Ann	
Oncol	2009;20:326-330.
Senff NJ, Noordijk EM, Kim YH, et al. European Organization for Research 
and Treatment of Cancer and International Society for Cutaneous Lymphoma 
consensus	recommendations	for	the	management	of	cutaneous	B-cell	
lymphomas.	Blood	2008;112:1600-1609.
Heinzerling L, Dummer R, Kempf W, et al. Intralesional therapy with anti-CD20 
monoclonal	antibody	rituximab	in	primary	cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma.	 Arch	
Dermatol	2000;136:374-378.Chemotherapy/Chemoimmuotherapy
Bekkenk	MW,	Vermeer	MH,	Geerts	ML,	et	al.	 Treatment	of	multifocal	primary	
cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma:	a	clinical	follow-up	study	of	29	patients.	J	Clin	Oncol	
1999;17:2471-2478.
Brice	P,	Cazals	D,	Mounier	N,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	large-cell	lymphoma:	
analysis	of	49	patients	included	in	the	LNH87	prospective	trial	of	
polychemotherapy for high-grade lymphomas. Groupe d'Etude des Lymphomes 
de	l'Adulte.	Leukemia	1998;12:213-219.
Hoefnagel	JJ,	Vermeer	MH,	Jansen	PM,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	marginal	zone	
B-cell	lymphoma:	Clinical	and	therapeutic	features	in	50	cases.	 Arch	Dermatol	
2005;141:1139-1145.
Grange	F,	Beylot-Barry	M,	Courville	P,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	diffuse	large	B-cell	
lymphoma, leg type: clinicopathologic features and prognostic analysis in 60 
cases.	Arch	Dermatol	2007;143:1144-1150.
Grange	F,	Joly	P,	Barbe	C,	et	al.	Improvement	of	survival	in	patients	with	primary	
cutaneous	diffuse	large	B-cell	lymphoma,	leg	type,	in	France.	JAMA 	Dermatol	
2014;150:535-541.
Rijlaarsdam JU, Toonstra J, Meijer OW, et al. Treatment of primary cutaneous 
B-cell	lymphomas	of	follicle	center	cell	origin:	 A	clinical	follow-up	study	of	
55 patients treated with radiotherapy or polychemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 
1996;14:549-555.
Senff NJ, Noordijk EM, Kim YH, et al. European Organization for Research 
and Treatment of Cancer and International Society for Cutaneous Lymphoma 
consensus	recommendations	for	the	management	of	cutaneous	B-cell	
lymphomas.	Blood	2008;112:1600-1609.
Vermeer	MH,	Geelen	FA,	van	Haselen	CW,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	large	B-cell	
lymphomas	of	the	legs.	 A	distinct	type	of	cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma	with	an	
intermediate prognosis. Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma Working Group. Arch 
Dermatol	1996;132:1304-1308.
Palliative low-dose RT 
Neelis KJ, Schimmel EC, Vermeer MH, et al. Low-dose palliative radiotherapy for 
cutaneous	B-	and	 T-cell	lymphomas.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2009;74:154-
158.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS/INTRO-1Definition
• Mycosis fungoides (MF)
MF is the most common cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) and many clinicopathologic variants of MF have been described.1,2
Most patients with MF exhibit an indolent clinical course with intermittent, stable, or slow progression of the lesions. 
Extracutaneous involvement may be seen in advanced stages, with involvement of lymph nodes, blood, or less commonly other organs.1,2
• Sézary syndrome (SS)
SS represents the leukemic variant of CTCL and is closely related to MF but has unique characteristics. SS is rare, accounting for less than 
5% of cutaneous lymphomas and predominantly affects older individuals.
SS is characterized by the presence of atypical T cells (Sézary cells) in skin causing diffuse erythema (erythroderma) and significant blood 
involvement with abnormal T cells (>1000 abnormal cells/uL) defined as Sézary cells by cytopathologic assessment or flow cytometry 
(abnormal subsets including but not limited to CD4+CD7- or CD4+CD26- cells; TRBC1 may contribute in detecting clonality and can improve 
the specificity of detecting Sezary cells when CD7 and CD26 are lost.3
SS is thought to arise from thymic memory T cells, while skin resident effector memory T cells are the cells of origin of MF . This supports the 
contention that SS is a process distinct from MF.4 Cases presenting clinically as an overlap of these two conditions exist.
Diagnosis
• The histopathologic findings of MF, even in cases showing classic features, need to be correlated with clinical presentation in order to reach a 
definitive diagnosis.5
• Patch lesions are often difficult for conclusive diagnosis; thus, in some instances multiple skin biopsies may be necessary for diagnosis. 
Stopping skin-directed therapy for 2–3 weeks or longer to individual lesions before obtaining a skin biopsy is advisable and may aid in 
diagnosis.1,2
• Awareness of specific clinicopathologic variants may aid in accurate diagnosis:
Lesions may be hyper- or hypopigmented.
Folliculotropic MF (FMF) may present as folliculocentric papules or nodules or areas of alopecia in any hair-bearing area of the body . A skin 
biopsy reaching the deep dermis may be required to assess adnexal structures.
Unilesional, pagetoid reticulosis and CD8+ MF variants tend to be associated with an indolent course. 
Granulomatous slack skin is rare and presents with redundant skin resembling cutis laxa on flexural areas.
• By IHC, the tumor cells are usually CD3+, CD4+, and CD8-, although CD8+ variants are not uncommon. In selected cases, additional IHC 
markers and molecular studies to evaluate clonal TCR gene rearrangements are necessary for diagnosis.
• Large-cell transformation (LCT) of MF is defined histologically as greater than 25% of the tumor cells displaying large size. CD30 expression 
may be seen but is not included in the definition of LCT.6
• The histopathologic findings of SS in skin are generally similar to, but may be more subtle than those seen in MF . Correlation with clinical and 
laboratory findings in blood is essential for a definitive diagnosis.
General Principles on MFSS/INTRO-2PRINCIPLES FOR MYCOSIS FUNGOIDES/SÉZARY SYNDROME (MF/SS)
References on MFSS/INTRO-APLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS/INTRO-2General Principles
• Multidisciplinary team approach (hematology/oncology, dermatology, pathology, and radiation oncology) with expertise in CTCL is often 
optimal for the management of patients with MF/SS, particularly those with advanced disease.
• Given the rarity of the disease, it is preferred that treatment or consultation occur at centers with expertise in the management of CTCL. 
• Evaluation of skin and/or nodal biopsies by a pathologist with expertise in CTCL at a referral center is recommended. 
• Folliculotropism and LCT are histologic features that can occur irrespective of stage.
• Recent studies have reported that FMF presents with two distinct patterns of clinicopathologic features with different prognostic 
implications (early stage and advanced stage); in a subgroup of patients with early skin-limited disease, FMF has an indolent disease course 
and a favorable prognosis.7,8,9 Early-stage cutaneous disease is associated with significantly higher disease-specific survival compared 
to advanced-stage cutaneous disease. Treatment may require skin-directed therapy that reaches the subcutaneous tissue (eg, psoralen 
plus ultraviolet A [PUVA], involved-site RT [ISRT]) or the addition of systemic therapy as used for stages I–IIB in patients with disease not 
responding to skin-directed therapy alone.
• The incidence of LCT is strongly dependent on the disease stage at diagnosis.10,11 LCT often but not always corresponds to a more 
aggressive growth rate requiring systemic therapies (MFSS-12).
• Goals of therapy should be individualized but often include:
Attain adequate response in order to reduce and control symptoms and minimize risk of progression.
Most treatments for MF/SS do not result in durable remissions off of treatment.
Therapies with lower side-effect profiles and an absence of cumulative toxicity are often given in an ongoing or maintenance fashion to 
improve and maintain disease control and quality of life. 
Other than allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT), therapies are not given with curative intent.
• Generally, skin-directed therapies and systemic therapy regimens that can be tolerated for longer durations of therapy with lower rates of 
cumulative toxicity, less immunosuppression, and/or higher efficacy are used in earlier lines of therapy. 
• In patients requiring chemotherapy, single agents are preferred over combination chemotherapy, due to the higher toxicity profiles 
associated with multi-agent regimens and the short-lived responses seen with time-limited combination chemotherapy.  
• Responses can vary between the different compartments (ie, skin, blood, lymph nodes). Often decisions to continue or switch therapy are on 
a clinical basis.
• Disease relapse after discontinuation of therapy may respond to re-treatment with previous therapy.
• Patients having partial responses with suboptimal quality of life should be treated with other or additional primary treatment options.
• Use of supportive care measures to minimize risk of skin infections and treat pruritus is an important part of disease and symptom control 
(MFSS-B).
References on MFSS/INTRO-APRINCIPLES FOR MYCOSIS FUNGOIDES/SÉZARY SYNDROME (MF/SS)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS/INTRO-A1 WHO	Classification	of	 Tumours	Editorial	Board.	Haematolymphoid	tumours.	(WHO	classification	of	tumours	series,	5th	ed.;	vol.	11).	Lyon	(France):	International	
Agency	for	Research	on	Cancer;	2024.
2 Campo	E,	Jaffe	ES,	Cook	JR,	et	al.	 The	International	Consensus	Classification	of	Mature	Lymphoid	Neoplasms:	a	report	from	the	Clinical	 Advisory	Committee.	Blood	
2022;140:1229-1253.
3 Olsen E, Whittaker S, Kim YH, et al. Clinical end points and response criteria in mycosis fungoides and Sézary syndrome: a consensus statement of the International 
Society for Cutaneous Lymphomas, the United States Cutaneous Lymphoma Consortium, and the Cutaneous Lymphoma Task Force of the European Organisation 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer. J	Clin	Oncol	2011;29:2598-2607.
4	Campbell JJ, Clark RA, Watanabe R, Kupper TS. Sezary syndrome and mycosis fungoides arise from distinct T-cell subsets: a biologic rationale for their distinct 
clinical	behaviors.	Blood	2010;116:767-771.
5 Pimpinelli	N,	Olsen	EA,	Santucci	M,	et	al.	Defining	early	mycosis	fungoides.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2005;53:1053-1063.
6 Talpur	R,	Sui	D,	Gangar	P,	et	al.	Retrospective	 Analysis	of	Prognostic	Factors	in	187	Cases	of	 Transformed	Mycosis	Fungoides.	Clin	Lymphoma	Myeloma	Leuk	
2016;16:49-56.
7 Hodak	E,	Amitay-Laish	I,	 Atzmony	L,	et	al.	New	insights	into	folliculotropic	mycosis	fungoides	(FMF):	 A	single-center	experience.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2016;75:347-
355. 
8	van	Santen	S,	Roach	RE,	van	Doorn	R,	et	al.	Clinical	staging	and	prognostic	factors	in	folliculotropic	mycosis	fungoides.	JAMA 	Dermatol	2016;152:992-1000.	
9	van Santen S, van Doorn R, Neelis KJ, et al. Recommendations for treatment in folliculotropic mycosis fungoides: report of the Dutch Cutaneous L ymphoma Group. 
Br	J	Dermatol	2017;177:223-228.
10 Vergier	B,	de	Muret	 A,	Beylot-Barry	M,	et	al.	 Transformation	of	mycosis	fungoides:	clinicopathological	and	prognostic	features	of	45	cases.	French	Study	Group	of	
Cutaneious	Lymphomas.	Blood	2000;95:2212-2218.	
11 Arulogun	SO,	Prince	HM,	Ng	J,	et	al.	Long-term	outcomes	of	patients	with	advanced-stage	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma	and	large	cell	transformation.	Blood	
2008;112:3082-3087.	PRINCIPLES FOR MYCOSIS FUNGOIDES/SÉZARY SYNDROME (MF/SS)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-1a Principles	of	Molecular	 Analysis	in	Primary	Cutaneous	Lymphomas	
(PCLYM-B).
b Presence	of	LCT 	or	areas	of	folliculotropism	may	have	important	
implications for selection of therapy and outcome and should be included 
in pathology reports. 
c Pimpinelli	N,	et	al.	Clinically	suspicious	and	histologically	non-diagnostic	
cases. J Am Acad Dermatol 2005;53:1053-1063.
d Use of Immunophenotyping/Genetic Testing in Differential Diagnosis 
of	Mature	B-Cell	and	NK/T-Cell	Neoplasms	(see NCCN Guidelines for 
B-Cell	Lymphomas) .
e Typical	immunophenotype:	CD2+,	CD3+,	CD5+,	CD7-,	CD4+,	CD8-	
(rarely	CD8+),	CD30-/+,	cytotoxic	granule	proteins	negative.f Clonal TCR gene rearrangements alone are not sufficient for diagnosis, as these can also 
be seen in patients with non-malignant conditions. Results should be interpreted in the 
context of overall presentation. See	Principles	of	Molecular	 Analysis	in	Primary	Cutaneous	
Lymphomas	(PCLYM-B).
g TRBC1	may	contribute	in	detecting	clonality	and	can	improve	the	specificity	of	detecting	
Sezary cells when CD7 and CD26 are lost.
h The	loss	of	CCR4	expression	and	emergence	of	 CCR4  genomic alterations might be 
associated	with	resistance	to	mogamulizumab	(Beygi	S,	et	al.	Blood	2022;139:3732-3736).
i See map for prevalence of HTLV-1/2 by geographic region. HTLV-1 has been described in 
patients in non-endemic areas.DIAGNOSISa
Workup 
(MFSS-2)ESSENTIAL:
• Biopsy of suspicious skin sites
Multiple biopsies may be necessary to capture the pathologic variability of disease at diagnosis
• Review of a sufficient number of slides with adequate material to perform a comprehensive workup as described 
below and/or at least one paraffin block representative of the lesion should be done by a pathologist with expertise 
in the diagnosis of CTCLs. Rebiopsy if pathological findings are non-diagnostic and/or discordant with the clinical 
presentationb
• IHC panel of skin biopsy may includec,d,e: 
CD2, CD3, CD4, CD5, CD7, CD8, CD20, CD30
• Molecular analysis to detect clonal T-cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangements or other assessment  
of clonalitya,f
USEFUL IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES:
• Assessment of peripheral blood for Sézary cells (extensive skin disease where skin biopsy is not diagnostic, extensive 
patch or erythrodermic skin disease and/or strongly suggestive but not diagnostic of advanced-stage disease):
Flow cytometry to assess and quantitate an expanded T-cell population with aberrant immunophenotype.a,g  
See MFSS-3 for specifics.
 ◊Flow cytometry panel may include CD3, CD4, CD7, CD8, CD26, CD45, TRBC1 to assess for expanded CD4+ cells with 
increased CD4/CD8 ratio or with abnormal immunophenotype, including loss of CD7 or CD26 
Sézary cell preparation is less useful than flow cytometry due to the subjective nature of the process but may still be 
useful in cases where an aberrant immunophenotype is not detected.
• IHC panel of skin biopsy may includeb,c: 
CD25, CD56, TIA1, granzyme B, TCRß, TCRẟ; CCR4,h CXCL13, inducible T-cell co-stimulator (ICOS), and programmed 
cell death protein 1 (PD-1)
• Assessment of HTLV-1/2i by serology or other methods  is encouraged as results can impact therapy. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-2a Principles	of	Molecular	 Analysis	in	Primary	Cutaneous	Lymphomas	
(PCLYM-B).
j Sézary	syndrome	(B2)	is	as	defined	on	 MFSS-3. 
k See Discussion  for when Sézary flow cytometric study is appropriate in T1 
disease.
l Patients	with	cutaneous	lymphomas	have	extranodal	disease,	which	may	be	
inadequately	imaged	by	CT.	PET 	scan	may	be	preferred	in	these	instances.WORKUP
ESSENTIAL:
• History and complete physical examination:
Complete skin examination: assessment of % body surface area (BSA) (palm plus all 5 digits ≈1% BSA) and type of skin 
lesion (ie, patch/plaque, tumor, erythroderma)
Palpation of peripheral lymph node regions
Palpation for organomegaly/masses
• Laboratory studiesj:
CBC with differential and determination of absolute lymphocyte count
Flow cytometry to assess and quantitate an expanded T-cell population with aberrant phenotype (optional for T1k) 
(MFSS-3)  
 ◊Recommended for any patient with T2–4 skin classification, any suspected extracutaneous disease including 
adenopathy
Clonal TCR gene rearrangement in peripheral blood lymphocytes if blood involvement suspecteda
Comprehensive metabolic panel
LDH
• Imaging studies:
Chest/abdomen/pelvis (C/A/P) CT with contrast or integrated whole body FDG-PET/CTl for T3 or T4 (arms/legs included 
when disease assessment of entire body is needed)
USEFUL IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES:
• Bone marrow biopsy in patients with unexplained hematologic abnormality
• Biopsy of enlarged lymph nodes or suspected extracutaneous sites. Excisional or adequate core needle biopsy is 
preferred. An fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy alone is insufficient for the initial diagnosis of lymphoma. Rebiopsy if 
pathological findings are nondiagnostic and/or discordant with the clinical presentation.
• Rebiopsy skin if suspicious of LCT or FMF and not previously confirmed pathologically or aggressive clinical behavior
• C/A/P CT with contrast or integrated whole body FDG-PET/CTl for ≥T2b or LCT or FMF, or with palpable adenopathy or 
abnormal laboratory studies; consider for T2a (patch disease with ≥10% BSA) or otherwise clinically indicatedm
• Neck CT with contrast if whole body FDG-PET/CT not done
• Pregnancy testing in patients of childbearing potential if contemplating treatments that are contraindicated in pregnancyn
• Discuss fertility preservationoFor TNMB 
Classification, 
see MFSS-3
and 
For Clinical 
Staging of MF 
and SS, see 
MFSS-4
m New significant adenopathy on clinical exam, abnormal laboratory results concerning 
of lymphoma, or accelerated skin disease.
n Many skin-directed and systemic therapies are contraindicated or of unknown safety in 
pregnancy. Refer to full prescribing information for individual drugs.
o Fertility preservation options include: sperm banking, semen cryopreservation, IVF, or 
ovarian tissue or oocyte cryopreservation. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
TNMB TNMB Classification and Staging of Mycosis Fungoides and S ézary Syndromep,q,r,s,t, u
Skin (T) T0vAbsence of clinically suspicious lesions
T1
  Patches,	plaques,	or	papules	<10%	BSAT1APatch	only	lesions
T1BPlaque/papule	±	patch	lesions
T2
  Patches,	plaques,	or	papules	≥10%	BSAT2APatch	only
T2BPlaque	±	patch
T3One or more tumors ≥1	cm	in	diameter
T4Confluence	of	erythema	covering	≥80%	BSAu
Node 
(N)wN0No clinically abnormal LN; no biopsy necessary
N1N1APathology	Dutch	grade	1	or	NCI	LN	0-2:	clone	negative	 or equivocal
N1BPathology	Dutch	grade	1	or	NCI	LN	0-2:	clone	positive	 and identical to skin
N2N2ADutch grade 2, NCI LN3: clone negative or equivocal
N2BDutch grade 2, NCI LN3: clone positive and identical to skin
N3wN3ADutch	grade	3-4,	NCI	LN4:	clone	negative	or	equivocal
N3BDutch	grade	3-4,	NCI	LN4:	clone	positive	 and identical to skin
NXClinically abnormal peripheral or central lymph node but no pathologic determination of representative LN. Other surrogate means of determining involvement may be 
determined by Tri-Society consensus
Visceral 
(M)M0No visceral involvement
M1aBM only  
involvementClone positive and identical to skin
Clone negative or indeterminate
M1bNon-BM  
visceral  
involvementClone positive and identical to skin
Clone negative or indeterminate
MXVisceral	involvement	is	neither	confirmed	nor	refuted	by	available	pathologic  or imaging assessment
Blood	
(B)xB0B0AClone negative or equivocal
Absence	of	significant	blood	involvement
B0BClone positive and identical to skin
B1B1AClone negative or equivocal
Low blood tumor burden
B1BClone positive and identical to skin
B2B2AClone negative or equivocal
High blood tumor burden
B2BClone positive and identical to skin 
BXBXAClone negative or equivocal
Unable to quantify blood involvement according to agreed upon guidelines
BXBClone positive and identical to skinClinical Staging of MF and SS ( MFSS-4)
Dutch Criteria for Lymph Nodes on MFSS-5
MFSS-3NCI Lymph Node Classification on MFSS-5
Footnotes on MFSS-3AChanges or confirmation of staging are noted in bold in table below and in further description on MFSS-3A.	Options	for	characterizing	clonality	further	by	designation	as	 A	(clone	negative	or	equivocal)	and	B	(clone 	
positive and identical to skin) are presented. If a clone in LN or viscera is detected but different from that identified in the skin, another concurrent lymphoproliferative process should be considered.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-3Ap This	work	was	originally	published	in	Blood.	Olsen	EA,	Whittaker	S,	Willemze	R,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	lymphoma:	recommendations	for	clinical	trial	design	and	
staging	update	from	the	ISCL,	USCLC,	and	EORTC.	Blood	2022;140:419-437.	©	 The	American	Society	of	Hematology.
q	Sézary	syndrome	is	defined	by	B2	blood	involvement	and	a	clonal	rearrangement	of	 TCR in the blood (clones should be relevant to clone in the skin). 
r Patch	=	Any	size	skin	lesion	without	significant	elevation	or	induration.	Presence/absence	of	hypo-	or	hyperpigmentation,	scale,	crusting,	and/or	poikiloderma	should	be	
noted.
s Plaque	=	Any	size	skin	lesion	that	is	elevated	or	indurated.	Presence	or	absence	of	scale,	crusting,	and/or	poikiloderma	should	be	noted.	Histologic	features	such	as	
folliculotropism	or	LCT 	(≥25%	large	cells),	CD30+	or	CD30-,	and	clinical	features	such	as	ulceration	are	important	to	document.
t Tumor	=	at	least	one	≥1	cm	diameter	solid	or	nodular	lesion	with	evidence	of	depth	and/or	vertical	growth.	Note	total	number	of	lesions,	total	volume	of	lesions,	largest	
size	lesion,	and	region	of	body	involved.	 Also	note	if	histologic	evidence	of	LCT 	has	occurred.	Phenotyping	for	CD30	is	encouraged.
u Patients	with	both	erythroderma	and	tumors	may	be	designated	as	 T4(T3).	The	BSA	of	80%	is	used	to	define	erythroderma	in	MF/SS	at	study	entry,	but	any	decrease	in	
BSA	during	the	study	does	not	affect	the	entry	classification.
v T0	is	used	for	clinical	trials	in	order	to	track	clearance	of	lesions	in	the	skin	compartment.	No	patient	with	PCL 	at	time	of	diagnosis	should	be	 T0.
w Abnormal LNs are those now >1.5 cm longest diameter (LDi) according to the Lugano classification and confirmed by imaging. The pathological findings of a 
representative abnormal LN may apply to all abnormal lymph nodes.
x Blood	staging	for	MF/SS	is	defined	currently	as	B0	=	250/µL	of	CD4+/CD26-	or	CD4+/CD7-	cells,	B1	=	does	not	meet	criteria	for	B0	or	B2,	and	B2	=	≥1000/µL 	of	CD4+/
CD26-	or	CD4+/CD7-	cells	or	other	aberrant	population	of	lymphocytes	identified	by	flow	cytometry.	It	is	expected	that	patients	with	high	blood	tumor	burden	(B2) will 
have a clone in the blood that is identical to that in the skin. Nonidentical T-cell clones are often detected in peripheral blood with increasing age and are of unknown 
clinical	significance.	Patients	with	lymphopenia	(defined	as	<1000	absolute	lymphocytes)	may	potentially	have	an	underestimation	of	aberrant	lymphocyte	burden	if	
assessed only by the absolute number and not also by the percentage of immunophenotypically abnormal lymphocytes.FOOTNOTESPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-4y Olsen	EA,	et	al.	Blood	2022;140:419-437.
z Folliculotropism is a histologic feature that can occur irrespective of stage. Histologic evidence of FMF is associated with higher risk of disease progression. In 
selected	cases	or	inadequate	response,	consider	primary	treatment	for	stage	IIB	(tumor	stage	disease).
aa LCT	is	a	histologic	feature	that	can	occur	irrespective	of	clinical	stage.	LCT 	often	but	not	always	corresponds	to	a	more	aggressive	growth	rate	requiring	systemic	
therapies.CLINICAL STAGING OF MF AND SSy
TNMB Classification on MFSS-3Clinical StagezT (Skin) N (Node) M (Visceral) B (Blood Involvement) Guidelines Page
IA  
(Limited skin involvement)T1 
(Patches,	papules,	and/or	plaques	
covering <10% body surface area 
[BSA])N0 M0 B0	or	B1 MFSS-6
IB 
(Skin only disease)T2 
(Patches,	papules,	and/or	plaques	
covering	≥10%	BSA)N0 M0 B0	or	B1 MFSS-7
IIA T1–2 N1–2 M0 B0	or	B1 MFSS-7
IIB 
(Tumor stage disease)T3 
(One	or	more	tumors	[≥1	cm	in	
diameter])N0–2 M0 B0	or	B1 MFSS-8
IIIA 
(Erythrodermic disease)T4 
(Confluence	of	erythema	≥80%	BSA)N0–2 M0 B0 MFSS-10
IIIB 
(Erythrodermic disease)T4 
(Confluence	of	erythema	≥80%	BSA)N0–2 M0 B1 MFSS-10
IVA1 (Sézary syndrome) T1–4 N0–2 M0 B2 MFSS-11
IVA2 (Sézary syndrome or 
Non-S ézary)T1–4 N3 M0 B0	or	B1	or	B2 MFSS-11
IVB (Visceral disease) T1–4 N0–3 M1A	or	M1B B0	or	B1	or	B2 MFSS-11
Large-cell transformation (LCT)aaMFSS-12PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-5NCI-VA Lymph Node Classification
LN0: no atypical lymphocytes
LN1: occasional and isolated atypical lymphocytes (not arranged in clusters)
LN2: many atypical lymphocytes or in 3–6 cell clusters
LN3: aggregates of atypical lymphocytes; nodal architecture preserved
LN4: partial/complete effacement of nodal architecture by atypical lymphocytes or frankly neoplastic cells
Clendenning	WE,	Rappaport	HW.	Report	of	the	Committee	on	Pathology	of	Cutaneous	 T	Cell	Lymphomas.	
Cancer	Treat	Rep	1979;63:719-724.
Dutch Criteria for Lymph Nodes
Grade 1: Dermatopathic lymphadenopathy
Grade 2: Early involvement by mycosis fungoides (presence of cerebriform nuclei >7.5 micrometers)
Grade 3: Partial effacement of lymph node architecture; many atypical cerebriform mononuclear cells
Grade 4: Complete effacement of lymph node architecture
Scheffer	E,	Meijer	CJLM,	van	Vloten	WA.	Dermatopathic	lymphadenopathy	and	lymph	node	
involvement	in	mycosis	fungoides.	Cancer	1980;45:137-148.LYMPH NODE (LN) CLASSIFICATION IN MF AND SSPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-6bb Principles	 for	Mycosis	Fungoides/Sé zary Syndrome (MFSS/INTRO-1) and General	Considerations	 for	the	Treatment	 of	Patients	with	MF	and	SS	(MFSS-A	1	of	12).
cc In rare cases of confirmed unilesional MF, RT has been shown to provide long-term remission.
dd Rebiopsy if LCT is suspected; if histologic evidence of LCT, see MFSS-12.
ee Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	primary	treatment	should	be	considered	for	maintenance	or	tapering	of	
regimens to optimize response duration.
ff Principles	of	Radiation	 Therapy	(PCLYM-A).STAGEbb
Stage IA  
(limited skin 
involvement alone,  
<10% BSA)cc,ddTable 1: Stage IA MF 
(Limited Skin Involvement 
Alone; <10% BSA)
Inadequate 
responseProgression to > stage 
IA on skin-directed 
therapies 
or 
Refractory disease 
to multiple previous 
therapies  
or  
Persistent T1 skin 
diseaseRelapse with T1 skin disease
Manage as Stage IB–IIA MF 
(MFSS-7) 
or 
Consider RT if not 
previously usedff 
or  
Clinical trial(MFSS-3 and 
MFSS-4)
Complete 
response/
partial 
response 
(CR/PR)ee Relapse with
> stage IA diseaseTreatment based on clinical 
stage. See MFSS-4 for 
appropriate clinical stageTREATMENT AND RESPONSE ASSESSMENTPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-7Stage IB (skin 
only disease 
with ≥10% BSA) 
- Stage IIAdd
Progression to > stage IB–IIA  
or 
Refractory disease to multiple 
previous therapies   
 
or  
 
Persistent T1–T2 skin diseaseRelapse with T1–T2 disease
Clinical trial
or
TSEBTff (if not previously 
used)
or
Manage as Stage IIB 
- Generalized Tumor 
Lesions (MFSS-9)Table 2: Stage IB MF (Skin 
Only Disease with ≥10% 
BSA) – Stage IIA MF
Inadequate 
responseRelapse with > stage IB–IIA disease
bb Principles	for	Mycosis	Fungoides/S ézary Syndrome (MFSS/INTRO-1) and General	Considerations	for	the	 Treatment	of	Patients	with	MF	and	SS	(MFSS-A 	1	of	12).
dd Rebiopsy if LCT is suspected; if histologic evidence of LCT, see MFSS-12.
ee Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	primary	treatment	should	be	considered	for	maintenance	or	tapering	of	
regimens to optimize response duration.
ff Principles	of	Radiation	 Therapy	(PCLYM-A).
gg Imaging (with modalities used in workup) indicated when suspicious of clinical extracutaneous disease.Lower skin 
disease 
burden (eg, 
predominantly 
patch disease)
Higher skin 
disease 
burden (eg, 
predominantly 
plaque 
disease)Table 2: Stage IB MF (Skin 
Only Disease with ≥10% 
BSA) – Stage IIA MF
Inadequate 
responseRelapse with low skin 
disease burden
Relapse with high skin disease burden (see below)
Progression to > stage IB–IIA
Retreat with primary treatment or treat as  high skin 
disease burden (see below)STAGEbb
(MFSS-3 and 
MFSS-4)
CR/PRee
CR/PRee 
Treatment based on 
clinical stage. See 
MFSS-4 for appropriate 
clinical stageTreatment based on 
clinical stage. See 
MFSS-4 for appropriate 
clinical stageTREATMENT AND RESPONSE ASSESSMENTggPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-8Stage IIB 
(tumor stage 
disease)dd
bb Principles	for	Mycosis	Fungoides/Sézary	Syndrome	(MFSS/INTRO-1) and General	Considerations	for	the	 Treatment	of	Patients	with	MF	and	SS	(MFSS-A 	1	of	12).
dd Rebiopsy if LCT is suspected; if histologic evidence of LCT, see MFSS-12.
ee Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	primary	treatment	should	be	considered	for	maintenance	or	tapering	of	
regimens to optimize response duration.
gg Imaging (with modalities used in workup) indicated when suspicious of clinical extracutaneous disease.Limited tumor 
lesions
Generalized 
tumor lesionsTable 3: Stage IIB MF 
(Tumor Stage Disease)
Progression > stage IIB 
disease 
or 
Refractory disease 
to multiple previous 
therapies  
or  
Persistent T1–T3 with 
limited tumor lesionsRelapse
• T1–2 with limited tumor lesions 
(Table 1 or Table 2)
• T3 with limited tumor lesions
MFSS-9Manage as Stage IIB 
- Generalized Tumor 
Lesions (MFSS-9)Inadequate 
responseRelapse with > stage 
IIB diseaseSTAGEbb
(MFSS-3 and 
MFSS-4)
CR/PRee 
Treatment based on 
clinical stage. See 
MFSS-4 for appropriate 
clinical stageTREATMENT AND RESPONSE ASSESSMENTggPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-9Stage IIB 
(tumor stage 
disease)dd
bb Principles	for	Mycosis	Fungoides/S ézary Syndrome (MFSS/INTRO-1) and General	Considerations	for	the	 Treatment	of	Patients	with	MF	and	SS	(MFSS-A 	1	of	12).
dd Rebiopsy if LCT is suspected, if histologic evidence of LCT, see MFSS-12.
ee Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	primary	treatment	should	be	considered	for	maintenance	or	tapering	of	
regimens to optimize response duration.
gg Imaging (with modalities used in workup) indicated when suspicious of clinical extracutaneous disease.
hh Allogeneic HCT is associated with better outcomes in patients with disease responding to primary treatment prior to transplant. See Discussion  for further details.Generalized 
tumor 
lesionsTable 3: Stage IIB MF 
(Tumor Stage Disease)Relapse:
• T1–2 (Table 1 or Table 2)
• T3 
Table 6 - Suggested 
regimens for MF with Large-
Cell Transformation (LCT) or 
Table 7 - Relapsed/Refractory 
Disease Requiring Systemic 
Therapy
or
Clinical trial
or
Consider allogeneic HCThhProgression > stage IIB 
disease 
or 
Refractory disease 
to multiple previous 
therapies  
or  
Persistent T1–T3 with 
generalized tumor lesionsInadequate 
responseRelapse with > stage IIB 
diseaseSTAGEbb
(MFSS-3 and 
MFSS-4)
CR/PRee 
Treatment based on 
clinical stage. See 
MFSS-4 for appropriate 
clinical stageTREATMENT AND RESPONSE ASSESSMENTggPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-10Stage III 
(erythrodermic 
disease)ddTable 4: Stage III MF 
(Erythrodermic Disease)Relapse
Clinical trial
or
Table 6 - Suggested Regimens for 
MF with Large-Cell Transformation 
(LCT) or Table 7 - Relapsed/Refractory 
Disease Requiring Systemic Therapy
or
Consider allogeneic HCThh as 
appropriate
bb Principles	for	Mycosis	Fungoides/S ézary Syndrome (MFSS/INTRO-1) and General	Considerations	for	the	 Treatment	of	Patients	with	MF	and	SS	(MFSS-A 	1	of	12).
dd Rebiopsy if LCT is suspected; if histologic evidence of LCT, see MFSS-12.
ee Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	primary	treatment	should	be	considered	for	maintenance	or	tapering	of	
regimens to optimize response duration.
gg Imaging (with modalities used in workup) indicated when suspicious of clinical extracutaneous disease.
hh Allogeneic HCT is associated with better outcomes in patients with disease responding to primary treatment prior to transplant. See Discussion  for further details.  Inadequate 
responseProgression with  
> stage III  
 
or 
 
Refractory disease 
to multiple 
previous therapies  
 
or  
 
Persistent diseaseRelapse with > stage III
MFSS-11STAGEbb
(MFSS-3 and 
MFSS-4)
CR/PRee TREATMENT AND RESPONSE ASSESSMENTggPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-11bb Principles	for	Mycosis	Fungoides/S ézary Syndrome (MFSS/INTRO-1) 
and General	Considerations	for	the	 Treatment	of	Patients	with	MF	and	SS	
(MFSS-A 1 of 12).
dd Rebiopsy if LCT is suspected; if histologic evidence of LCT, see MFSS-12.
ee Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	
responding to primary treatment should be considered for maintenance or 
tapering of regimens to optimize response duration.Stage IVdd
Non-Sézary 
(stage IVA2)
or 
Visceral 
(stage IVB) 
disease 
(solid organ)Table 5: Sézary Syndrome 
(Stage IVA1 or IVA2)
Table 6: Suggested 
Regimens for Non-
Sézary (stage IVA2) or 
Visceral/solid Organ 
(stage IVB) DiseaseRelapse
Retreat with  
primary treatment
or
Clinical trial
or
Consider allogeneic HCThh 
as appropriateRepeat 
imaging 
with 
modalities 
used in 
workup 
(frequency 
as clinically 
indicated)iiInadequate 
responsePersistent disease  
or 
Refractory disease 
to multiple previous 
therapies 
Inadequate 
responseRefractory 
disease to 
multiple 
previous 
therapies 
or 
Persistent 
diseaseSézary 
syndrome 
(stage 
IVA1 or 
IVA2)STAGEbb
(MFSS-3 and 
MFSS-4)
CR/PRee
CR/PRee 
hh Allogeneic HCT is associated with better outcomes in patients with disease 
responding to primary treatment prior to transplant. See Discussion  for further details. 
ii If disease in lymph nodes and/or viscera or suspicious of disease progression, 
imaging (with modalities used in workup) as clinically indicated based on distribution 
of disease.Clinical trial 
or
Table 7: Suggested 
Regimens for Relapsed/
Refractory Disease Requiring 
Systemic Therapy
or
Consider allogeneic HCThh 
as appropriateClinical trial 
or
Table 7: Suggested 
Regimens for Relapsed/
Refractory Disease Requiring 
Systemic Therapy
or
Consider allogeneic HCThh 
as appropriate
RelapseTREATMENT AND RESPONSE ASSESSMENTiiPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-12LCTLimited 
cutaneous 
lesions with LCT
Generalized 
cutaneous or 
extracutaneous 
lesions with 
LCTTable 6 - Suggested 
Regimens for MF 
with Large-Cell 
Transformation (LCT)• Table 6 - Suggested Regimens 
for MF with Large-Cell 
Transformation (LCT) or Table 
7 - Relapsed/Refractory Disease 
Requiring Systemic Therapy 
and concurrent management of 
co-existing disease based on 
clinical stage (MFSS-4)
• Consider allogeneic HCThh as 
appropriate
• Clinical trial
Repeat 
imaging 
with 
modalities 
used in 
workup 
(frequency 
as clinically 
indicated)Inadequate 
responseRefractory disease 
to multiple previous 
therapies 
or 
Persistent disease
Inadequate 
responseRefractory 
disease to 
multiple 
previous 
therapies  
or 
Persistent 
diseaseConsider RTff to lesions 
with LCTee 
and 
Concurrent management 
of co-existing disease 
based on clinical stageRelapse
bb Principles	for	Mycosis	Fungoides/S ézary Syndrome (MFSS/INTRO-1) and General	Considerations	for	the	 Treatment	of	Patients	with	MF	and	SS	(MFSS-A 	1	of	12).
ee Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	primary	treatment	should	be	considered	for	maintenance	or	tapering	of	
regimens to optimize response duration.
ff Principles	of	Radiation	 Therapy	(PCLYM-A).
gg Imaging (with modalities used in workup) indicated when suspicious of clinical extracutaneous disease.
hh Allogeneic HCT is associated with better outcomes in patients with disease responding to primary treatment prior to transplant. See Discussion  for further details. STAGEbb
(MFSS-3 and 
MFSS-4)
CR/PRee
CR/PRee 
Clinical trial 
or
Table 7 - Suggested Regimens 
for Relapsed/Refractory Disease 
Requiring Systemic Therapy
or
Consider allogeneic HCThh as 
appropriateRetreat with  
primary treatment
or
Clinical trial
or
Consider allogeneic HCThh 
as appropriateRelapseTREATMENT AND RESPONSE ASSESSMENTggPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A 
1 OF 12GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS WITH MF AND SS
• Generally, skin-directed therapies and systemic therapy regimens that can often be tolerated for longer durations of therapy with lower rates 
of cumulative toxicity, less immunosuppression, and/or higher efficacy are used in earlier lines of therapy before moving on to treatment 
options that carry a higher risk of cumulative toxicity and/or immunosuppression. 
• Therapies with lower side effect profiles and an absence of cumulative toxicity are often given in an ongoing or maintenance fashion to 
improve and maintain disease control and quality of life.
• Systemic therapy is often combined with skin-directed therapy to maximize clinical responses in the skin compartment and to provide 
additive efficacy without cumulative toxicities. 
• Bexarotene, brentuximab vedotin, denileukin diftitox-cxdl, mogamulizumab, romidepsin, and vorinostat are approved by the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of MF and SS. Other systemic therapies such as interferons (alfa and gamma), methotrexate, 
and other retinoids (acitretin and isotretinoin) also offer clinical benefit but have only been evaluated in small studies. 
• The optimal treatment for any patient at any given time is often individualized based on symptoms of disease, route of administration, 
toxicities, and overall goals of therapy. 
• Use of supportive care measures to minimize risk of skin infections and treat pruritus is an important part of disease and symptom control 
(MFSS-B).PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A 
2 OF 12SUGGESTED REGIMENS: SKIN-DIRECTED THERAPIES
SKIN-LIMITED/LOCAL
(FOR LIMITED/LOCALIZED SKIN INVOLVEMENT)TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS
• Local	radiation	(involved-site	radiation	therapy	[ISRT])
8–12	Gy;	24–30	Gy	for	unilesional	presentation
• Phototherapy	(See	 MFSS-C)
UVB	or	narrowband	UVB	(NB-UVB)
• Topical corticosteroids
• Topical	imiquimod	
• Topical mechlorethamine (nitrogen mustard)
• Topical retinoids (bexarotene, tazarotene)
• Topical	carmustine	(category	2B)
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Topical calcineurin inhibitor (pimecrolimus)1. Skin-directed therapies can be used alone or in combination with other skin-directed therapies.
2. Cumulative dose of UV, in	particular	PUVA,	which	carries	a	higher	risk	than	NBUVB,	is	
associated with increased risk of UV-associated skin neoplasms; thus, phototherapy 
use should be balanced against these risks in patients with a history of extensive 
squamoproliferative	skin	neoplasms	or	basal	cell	carcinomas	or	who	have	had	melanoma.
3. TSEBT,	and	in	certain	cases	PUVA	or	UVA1	may	be	considered	 for	widespread	 thicker	plaques	
or tumors. 
4.	Low-dose	local	RT 	(8–12	Gy)	is	given	with	palliative	intent	(usually	as	combined	modality 	
therapy).	Some	Member	Institutions	are	exploring	the	use	of	lower	dose	options	(eg,	4	Gy). 	
Up	to	8	Gy	can	be	given	in	a	single	fraction,	although	lower	dose	per	fraction	(3–5	Gy)	may	be 	
preferred depending on skin condition, irradiation volume, and prior RT. For rare initial unilesional 
presentations,	RT 	(24–30	Gy)	is	given	as	monotherapy	with	curative	intent.
5. Optimal use of topical steroids is often dependent on lesion type and location of disease. This 
is best done in consultation with a dermatologist or physician with experience in the use of 
topical steroids. In general, high-potency steroids may be less well-tolerated intertriginous 
body	areas	or	other	areas	such	as	the	face.	Potency	of	steroid	and	extent/duration	of	skin	
treated can result in systemic absorption and/or skin atrophy. 
6. Topical	imiquimod	can	be	considered	(often	in	consultation	with	a	dermatologist	or	physician 	
with	experience	in	its	safety	and	use)	for	areas	with	few	patches/plaques/small	tumors	that	are 	
recalcitrant to treatment or on sun-damaged skin such as forearms, scalp, and face.
7. Topical	mechlorethamine	has	no	significant	systemic	absorption,	and	can	be	used	alone	
or in combination with other skin directed therapies, in particular topical steroids. Topical 
mechlorethamine use, in particular gel preparation, can be complicated by dermatitis, and can 
result in skin irritation when used on face and intertriginous body areas. Initiating at less than 
daily use can be useful to determine tolerability and topical steroids can be considered as 
needed to alleviate skin reactions from topical mechlorethamine gel. If used with phototherapy, 
topical mechlorethamine gel should be applied after exposure to UVL.
8.	Topical retinoids can cause skin irritation including redness, peeling, and dermatitis when used 
on face and intertriginous body areas.
9.	Topical	calcineurin	inhibitors	can	be	considered	for	perioral	and	periorbital	affected	areas	of	
skin as a steroid-sparing treatment.
10. It	is	common	practice	to	follow	 TSEBT	with	systemic	therapies	to	maintain	response.	 There	
is	limited	safety	data	for	the	use	of	 TSEBT	in	combination	with	systemic	retinoids,	histone	
deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors (such as vorinostat or romidepsin), or mogamulizumab, or 
combining phototherapy with vorinostat or romidepsin. SKIN-GENERALIZED 
(FOR GENERALIZED SKIN INVOLVEMENT)
• Phototherapy	(See	 MFSS-C)
UVB	or	NB-UVB	
PUVA
UVA1 (if available)
• Topical corticosteroids
• Topical mechlorethamine (nitrogen mustard)
• Total	skin	electron	beam	therapy	(TSEBT)	(12–36	Gy)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A 
3 OF 12TABLE 1: STAGE IA MF (Limited skin involvement alone; <10% BSA) - MFSS-6a,b
SUGGESTED REGIMENSTREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS
(SEE ALSO GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON MFSS-A [1 of 12])
• Skin-directed therapies (alone or in combination with other skin-
directed therapies) [S ee Skin-Limited/Local (for limited/localized skin 
involvement, MFSS-A 2 of 12)]	
OR
• Skin-directed therapy ( Skin-Limited/Local ) in combination with 
systemic therapy (in selected cases) 
Preferred	Regimens	(alphabetical	order )
• Systemic	therapy	+	skin-directed therapy  (limited/local or generalized 
including phototherapy as indicated for stage of disease)
Bexarotene
Interferon alfab 
Methotrexate 
Useful in Certain Ci rcumstances (alphabetical order)
• Systemic	therapy	+	skin-directed therapy  (limited/local or generalized 
including phototherapy as indicated for stage of disease)
Acitretin 
Extracorporeal	photopheresis	(ECP)	
Interferon gamma-1b
Isotretinoin1. Stage IA MF most often can be treated with skin-directed therapies 
(alone or in combination with other skin-directed therapies). 
2. In patients with histologic evidence of FMF, skin disease may be less 
responsive to topical therapies. 
3. Systemic therapies (single agents or combination therapies) should be 
reserved for patients with blood involvement or for whom skin-directed 
therapies	do	not	provide	sufficient	disease	control	or	who	have	disease	
that is not amenable to skin-directed therapy (eg, in regions where topical 
therapies	are	difficult	to	apply	regularly).
4.	Alternative retinoids (acitretin or isotretinoin) could be considered in 
place of bexarotene.
5. In	stage	IA,	ECP 	is	primarily	reserved	for	the	rare	patient	with	stage	IA 	
MF	with	low	level	blood	involvement	(B1).
6. Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	
disease responding to primary treatment should be considered for 
maintenance or tapering of regimens to optimize response duration.
Footnotes on  
MFSS-A 9 of 12PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A 
4 OF 12TABLE 2: STAGE IB MF (Skin only disease with ≥10% BSA) – STAGE IIA MF - MFSS-7a,b,c
SUGGESTED REGIMENSTREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS
(SEE ALSO GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON MFSS-A [1 of 12])
• Skin-directed therapies (alone or in combination with other skin-
directed therapies)
Lower skin disease burden (eg, predominantly patch disease): 
Skin-Limited/Local (for limited/localized skin involvement )
Higher	skin	disease	burden	(eg,	predominantly	plaque	disease):	
Skin-Generalized (for generalized skin involvement)
OR
• Systemic	therapy	+	skin-directed therapy  (limited/local or 
generalized including phototherapy as indicated for stage of 
disease)
Preferred Reg imens (alphabetical order)
• Bexarotene	
• Brentuximab	vedotin
• Interferon alfab 
• Methotrexate
• Mogamulizumab
• Romidepsin
• Vorinostat
Useful in  Certain Circ umstances (alphabetical order  by category)
• Acitretin 
• Denileukin diftitox-cxdld
• ECP
• Interferon gamma-1b
• Isotretinoin
• Alemtuzumab	(category	2B)
• Gemcitabine	(category	2B)
• Liposomal	doxorubicin	(category	2B)
• Pembrolizumab	(category	2B)
• Pralatrexate	(category	2B)1. Stage	IB–IIA 	MF	can	be	treated	with	skin-directed	therapies	(alone	or	in	
combination with other skin-directed therapies).  
 
Limited patches/plaques:  Skin-directed therapy can be considered as  
monotherapy. 
Extensive skin involvement:	Phototherapy	may	be	given	alone	or	in	
combination	with	other	skin-directed	therapies.	 TSEBT	maybe	given	alone	or	
in combination with topical corticosteroids.
2. In patients with histologic evidence of FMF, skin disease may be less 
responsive to topical therapies. 
3. Systemic therapies (single agents or combination therapies) should be 
considered for patients with extensive skin involvement, higher skin disease 
burden,	predominantly	plaque	disease,	blood	involvement,	and/or	inadequate	
response to skin-directed therapy.
4.	In	the	randomized	 ALCANZA 	trial	(Prince	HM,	et	al.	Lancet	2017;390:555-
566),	brentuximab	vedotin	was	more	effective	than	methotrexate	or	
bexarotene	in	patients	with	previously	treated	MF	(≥	stage	IB).	Patients	with	
SS	were	excluded	from	the	 ALCANZA 	trial.
5. In	the	randomized	MAVORIC	trial	(Kim	 YH,	et	al.	Lancet	Oncol	2018;19:1192-
1204),	mogamulizumab	was	more	effective	than	vorinostat	in	patients	with	
previously	treated	MF	(≥	stage	IB)	and	SS.	Responses	were	higher	in	patients	
with blood involvement (stage III or stage IV disease) than those with stage 
IIB	or	stage	IB/IIA 	disease.	Patients	with	MF-LCT 	were	excluded	from	the	
MAVORIC trial.
6. Alternative retinoids (acitretin or isotretinoin) could be considered in place of 
bexarotene. 
7. In	stage	IB/IIA,	ECP 	is	primarily	reserved	for	patients	with	low-level	blood	
involvement	(B1).
8.	There	is	limited	safety	data	for	the	use	of	 TSEBT	in	combination	with	
systemic retinoids, HDAC inhibitors (such as vorinostat or romidepsin), or 
mogamulizumab, or combining phototherapy with vorinostat or romidepsin. 
9.	Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	
responding to treatment should be considered for maintenance or tapering of 
regimens to optimize response duration.
10. LCT-MF was not an exclusion criteria for Study 302, which evaluated a 
reformulated version of denileukin diftitox, but no patients with LCT-MF were 
enrolled in the study.
Footnotes on MFSS-A 9 of 12PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A 
5 OF 12TABLE 3: STAGE IIB MF (Tumor stage disease)a,b,c
LIMITED TUMOR DISEASE GENERALIZED TUMOR DISEASETREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS
(SEE ALSO GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON  
MFSS-A [1 of 12])
• Local RT and/or skin-directed therapy
 
OR
• Systemic	therapy	±	local	RT 	±	skin-directed 
therapy (limited/ local or generalized 
including phototherapy as indicated for stage 
of disease)
Preferred	Regimens  (alphabetical order )
• Bexarotene
• Brentuximab	vedotin
• Interferon alfab 
• Methotrexate
• Mogamulizumab
• Romidepsin
Other Recommended Regimen
• Vorinostat 
• Pembrolizumab	(category	2B)
Useful in Certain Circumst ances (alphabetical 
order)
• Acitretin
• Denileukin diftitox-cxdld
• ECP	
• Interferon gamma-1b
• Isotretinoin• TSEBT	
  
• Systemic	therapy	+	skin-directed therapy  (limited/ 
local or generalized including phototherapy as 
indicated for stage of disease)
• Combination therapies
Preferred	Regimens  (alphabetical orde r)
• Single agents
Bexarotene
Brentuximab	vedotin
Denileukin diftitox-cxdld 
Gemcitabine 
Interferon alfab 
• Combination therapy 
Retinoid	+	interferon	alfab
Other Recommended Regimens
• Pembrolizumab
• Vorinostat
Useful in Certain Circumstances  (alphabetical order )
• Single agents
Acitretin
ECP	
Interferon gamma-1b
Isotretinoin
• Combination therapy
ECP	+	interferon	alfab or retinoid 
ECP	+	interferon	alfab	+	retinoid1. RT is preferred for limited tumor lesions. Topical therapies 
alone	are	often	inadequate	for	tumor	stage	disease.	
2. In patients with histologic evidence of FMF, skin disease 
may be less responsive to topical therapies.
3. Adjuvant systemic biologic therapy may be considered after 
TSEBT	for	generalized	tumor	lesions	to	improve	response	
duration.
4.	In	the	randomized	 ALCANZA 	trial	(Prince	HM,	et	al.	
Lancet	2017;390:555-566),	brentuximab	vedotin	was	more	
effective	than	methotrexate	or	bexarotene	in	patients	with	
previously	treated	MF	(≥	stage	IB).	Patients	with	SS	were	
excluded	from	the	 ALCANZA 	trial.
5. In the randomized MAVORIC trial (Kim YH, et al. Lancet 
Oncol	2018;19:1192-1204),	mogamulizumab	was	more	
effective	than	vorinostat	in	patients	with	previously	treated	
MF	(≥	stage	IB)	and	SS.	Responses	were	higher	in	patients	
with blood involvement (stage III or stage IV disease) than 
those	with	stage	IIB	or	stage	IB/IIA 	disease.	Patients	with	
MF-LCT were excluded from the MAVORIC trial.
6. Alternative retinoids (acitretin or isotretinoin) could be 
considered in place of bexarotene.
7. ECP	may	be	more	appropriate	as	systemic	therapy	in	
patients	with	some	blood	involvement	(B1	or	B2).
8.	There	is	limited	safety	data	for	the	use	of	 TSEBT	in	
combination with systemic retinoids, HDAC inhibitors 
(such as vorinostat or romidepsin), or mogamulizumab, or 
combining phototherapy with vorinostat or romidepsin. 
9.	Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/
or those with disease responding to treatment should be 
considered for maintenance or tapering of regimens to 
optimize response duratio n.
10. LCT-MF was not an exclusion criteria for Study 302, which 
evaluated a reformulated version of denileukin diftitox, but 
no patients with LCT-MF were enrolled in the study.Liposomal doxorubicin
Methotrexate
Mogamulizumab 
Pralatrexate
Romidepsin
Footnotes on MFSS-A 9 of 12OR
ORPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A 
6 OF 12TABLE 4: STAGE III MF (Erythrodermic disease) - MFSS-10a,b,c,e
SUGGESTED REGIMENSTREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS
(SEE ALSO GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON MFSS-A [1 of 12])
• Systemic	therapy	+	skin-directed therapy  (limited/local or generalized 
including phototherapy as indicated for stage of disease) 
Preferred Regimens  (alphabetical order)
• Single agents
Bexarotene
Brentuximab	vedotin
ECP
Interferon alfab 
Methotrexate
Mogamulizumab
Romidepsin
• Combination therapy
ECP	+	interferon	alfab or retinoid
ECP	+	interferon	alfab	+	retinoid
Retinoid	+	interferon	alfab
Other Recommended Regimens
• Vorinostat 
Useful in Certain Circ umstances (alphabetical order)
• Single agents
Acitretin
Alemtuzumab 
Denileukin diftitox-cxdld
Gemcitabine
Interferon gamma-1b
Isotretinoin
Liposomal doxorubicin
Pembrolizumab	
Pralatrexate
• Skin-directed therapy
Phototherapy
TSEBT	(category	2B)1. In	the	randomized	 ALCANZA 	trial	(Miles	Prince	H,	et	al.	Lancet	
2017;390:555-566),	brentuximab	vedotin	was	more	effective	than	
methotrexate	or	bexarotene	in	patients	with	previously	treated	MF	(≥	stage	
IB).	Patients	with	SS	were	excluded	from	the	 ALCANZA 	trial.
2. In the randomized MAVORIC trial (Kim YH, et al. Lancet Oncol 
2018;19:1192-1204),	mogamulizumab	was	more	effective	than	vorinostat	
in	patients	with	previously	treated	MF	(≥	stage	IB)	and	SS.	Responses	
were higher in patients with blood involvement (stage III or stage IV 
disease)	than	those	with	stage	IIB	or	stage	IB/IIA 	disease.	Patients	with	
MF-LCT were excluded from the MAVORIC trial.
3. Alternative retinoids (acitretin or isotretinoin) could be considered in place 
of bexarotene.
4.	ECP	may	be	more	appropriate	as	systemic	therapy	in	patients	with	some	
blood	involvement	(B1	or	B2).
5. Phototherapy	and	 TSEBT	may	be	associated	with	increased	toxicity	in	
patients with erythroderma and	modification	is	dose/schedule	may	be	
considered.
6. There	is	limited	safety	data	for	the	use	of	 TSEBT	in	combination	with	
systemic retinoids, HDAC inhibitors (such as vorinostat or romidepsin), 
or mogamulizumab, or combining phototherapy with vorinostat or 
romidepsin. 
7. Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	
responding to treatment should be considered for maintenance or tapering 
of regimens to optimize response duration.
8.	Patients	with	erythrodermic	disease	are	at	increased	risk	for	secondary	
infection with skin pathogens and systemic antibiotic therapy should be 
considered. See  MFSS-B.
9.	LCT-MF was not an exclusion criteria for Study 302 LCT-MF was not an 
exclusion criteria for Study 302, which evaluated a reformulated version of 
denileukin diftitox, but no patients with LCT-MF were enrolled in the study. 
Footnotes on 
MFSS-A 9 of 12PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A 
7 OF 12TABLE 5: SÉZARY SYNDROME (Stage IVA1 or IVA2) - MFSS-11a,b,c,e
SUGGESTED REGIMENS TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS
(SEE ALSO GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON 
MFSS-A [1 of 12])Low-Intermediate Burden 
(eg, ASC <5 K/mm3)High Burden 
(eg, ASC >5 K/mm3)
• Systemic	therapy	+	skin-directed therapy  (limited/local 
or generalized including phototherapy as indicated for 
stage of disease)
Preferred	Regimens  (alphabetical order )
• Single agents
Bexarotene
ECP
Interferon alfab
Methotrexate
Mogamulizumab
Romidepsin
Vorinostat
• Combination therapy 
ECP	+	interferon	alfab or retinoid 
ECP	+	interferon	alfab	+	retinoids
Retinoid	+	interferon	alfab
Other Recommended Regimens  (alphabetical order )
• Alemtuzumab
• Brentuximab	vedotin	
• Gemcitabine
• Liposomal doxorubicin
• Pembrolizumab	
• Pralatrexate
Useful in Certain Ci rcumstances (alphabetical order)
• Acitretin
• Interferon gamma-1b
• Isotretinoin• Systemic	therapy	+	skin-directed therapy  (limited/
local or generalized including phototherapy as 
indicated for stage of disease)
Preferred	Regimens  (alphabetical order)
• Single agents
Mogamulizumab
Romidepsin
• Combination therapy 
ECP	+	interferon	alfab or retinoid 
ECP	+	interferon	alfab	+	retinoids
Retinoid	+	interferon	alfab
Other Recommended Regimens  
(alphabetical order )
• Alemtuzumab
• Bexarotene
• Brentuximab	vedotin
• ECP
• Gemcitabine
• Interferon alfab
• Liposomal doxorubicin
• Methotrexate
• Pembrolizumab
• Pralatrexate
• Vorinostat
Useful in  Certain Circum stances (alphabetical 
order)
• Acitretin
• Interferon gamma-1b
• Isotretinoin1. In	the	randomized	 ALCANZA 	trial	(Miles	Prince	
H,	et	al.	Lancet	2017;390:555-566),	brentuximab	
vedotin	was	more	effective	than	methotrexate	or	
bexarotene in patients with previously treated MF 
(≥	stage	IB).	Patients	with	SS	were	excluded	from	
the	ALCANZA 	trial.	
2. In the randomized MAVORIC trial (Kim YH, 
et	al.	Lancet	Oncol	2018;19:1192-1204),	
mogamulizumab	was	more	effective	than	vorinostat	
in	patients	with	previously	treated	MF	(≥	stage	IB)	
and SS. Responses were higher in patients with 
blood involvement (stage III or stage IV disease) 
than	those	with	stage	IIB	or	stage	IB/IIA 	disease.	
Patients	with	MF-LCT 	were	excluded	from	the	
MAVORIC trial.
3. Alternative retinoids (acitretin or isotretinoin) could 
be considered in place of bexarotene.
4.	There	is	limited	safety	data	for	the	use	of	 TSEBT	
in combination with systemic retinoids, HDAC 
inhibitors (such as vorinostat or romidepsin), or 
mogamulizumab, or combining phototherapy with 
vorinostat or romidepsin.  
5. Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	
and/or those with disease responding to treatment 
should be considered for maintenance or tapering 
of regimens to optimize response duration.
Footnotes on 
MFSS-A 9 of 12PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A 
8 OF 12TABLE 6: STAGE IV MF (Non-Sézary/Visceral organ disease) AND MF WITH LARGE CELL TRANSFORMATION (MF-LCT)c,e,f
SUGGESTED REGIMENSTREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS
(SEE ALSO GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON MFSS-A [1 of 12] )Non-Sézary (stage IVA2) or Visceral/Solid 
Organ (stage IVB) Disease (MFSS-11)MF-LCT ( MFSS-12)
• Systemic	therapy	±	RT 	for	local	control
Preferred	Regimens  (alphabetical order )
• Brentuximab	vedotin
• Gemcitabine
• Liposomal doxorubicin
• Pralatrexate
• Romidepsin
Other Recommended Regimens
• Mogamulizumab
• Multiagent chemotherapy regimens (See 
NCCN Guidelines for T-Cell Lymphomas  
- PTCL-B	3	of	8 for regimens listed for 
PTCL-	NOS)• TSEBT
  OR
• Systemic	therapy	+	skin directed 
therapy
Preferred	Regimens  (alphabetical 
order)
• Brentuximab	vedotin
• Gemcitabine
• Liposomal doxorubicin
• Pralatrexate
• Romidepsin
• Multiagent chemotherapy regimens 
(See NCCN Guidelines for T-Cell 
Lymphomas  -	PTCL-B	3	of	8 for 
regimens	listed	for	PTCL-NOS)
Other Recommended Regimens
• Pembrolizumab1. In the MAVORIC trial (Kim YH, et al. Lancet Oncol 
2018;19:1192-1204),	mogamulizumab	was	more	effective	
than vorinostat in patients with previously treated MF and SS. 
Response rates were higher in the blood compartment than in 
lymph	nodes	or	viscera.	Patients	with	MF-LCT 	were	excluded	
from the MAVORIC trial. 
2. There	is	limited	safety	data	for	the	use	of	 TSEBT	in	combination	
with systemic retinoids, HDAC inhibitors (such as vorinostat or 
romidepsin), or mogamulizumab, or combining phototherapy 
with vorinostat or romidepsin. 
3. In	patients	requiring	chemotherapy,	single	agents	are	
preferred over combination chemotherapy, due to the higher 
toxicity	profiles	associated	with	multi-agent	regimens	and	
the short-lived responses seen with time-limited combination 
chemotherapy.
4.	Multiagent chemotherapy regimens are generally reserved for 
patients with relapsed/refractory or extracutaneous disease. 
Most patients are treated with multiple single-agent systemic 
therapies before receiving multiagent chemotherapy.
TABLE 7: RELAPSED OR REFRACTORY DISEASE TO MULTIPLE PRIOR THERAPIES
SUGGESTED REGIMENS
Useful in Certain Circumstances  (alphabetical order by category )
• Alemtuzumab
• Chlorambucil
• Cyclophosphamide
• Etoposide
• Pembrolizumab
• Pentostatin
• Temozolomide for central nervous system (CNS) involvement at some NCCN Member Institutions
• Bortezomib	(category	2B)
• Multiagent chemotherapy regimens (See NCCN Guidelines for T-Cell Lymphomas  -	PTCL-B	3	of	8	for	regimens	listed	for	PTCL-NOS)
Footnotes on 
MFSS-A 9 of 12PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
FOOTNOTES
MFSS-A 
9 OF 12a Laboratory	studies	for	triglycerides,	and	thyroid	function	tests	(with	free	thyroxine	 T4)	are	recommended	for	patients	receiving	bexarotene.
b Peginterferon	alfa-2a	may	be	substituted	for	other	alpha	interferon	preparations	(Schiller	M,	et	al.	J	Eur	 Acad	Dermatol	Venerol	2017;31:1841-1847;	Patsatsi	 A,	et	al.	J	
Eur	Acad	Dermatol	Venereol	2022;36:e291-e293;	Osman	S,	et	al.	Dermatologic	 Therapy	2023;2023:7171937).
c In	the	ALCANZA 	trial,	brentuximab	vedotin	was	associated	with	superior	clinical	outcome	in	patients	with	previously	treated	CD30+	MF	(CD30	positivity	was	defined	as	
CD30	expression	in	≥10%	of	total	lymphoid	cells).	Interpretation	of	CD30	expression	is	not	universally	standardized.	Responses	have	been	seen	in	patients	with	a	low	
level of CD30 positivity and any level of CD30 positivity is acceptable for the use of brentuximab vedotin.
d In	Study	302,	CD25-positiity	was	defined	as	detectable	CD25	in	≥20%	of	total	lymphoid	cells	in	biopsy	specimen	by	IHC.	However,	there	was	no	correlation	between	
the CD25 expression and the efficacy of denileukin diftitox.
e Rapid progression has been reported in patients, who are positive for human t-lymphotropic virus (HTLV), receiving pembrolizumab. Disease flare is seen in some 
patients	(especially	in	erythrodermic	skin/Sézary	patients)	and	should	be	distinguished	from	disease	progression	(Khodadoust	MS,	et	al.	J	Clin	Oncol	2020:38:20-28).
f Lower doses of alemtuzumab administered subcutaneously have shown lower incidence of infectious complications. While alemtuzumab is no longer commercially 
available, it may be obtained for clinical use. Recommend CMV monitoring or prophylaxis (s ee	PCLYM-C).PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A  
10 OF 12 SUGGESTED TREATMENT REGIMENS
REFERENCES
ContinuedSkin-Directed Therapies
Topical corticosteroids
Zackheim	HS,	Kashani-Sabet	M,	 Amin	S.	Topical	corticosteroids	for	mycosis	fungoides.	
Experience	in	79	patients.	 Arch	Dermatol	1998;134:949-954.
Zackheim	HS.	 Treatment	of	patch	stage	mycosis	fungoides	with	topical	corticosteroids.	  
Dermatol	Ther	2003;16:283-287.
Mechlorethamine hydrochloride (nitrogen mustard)
Alexander-Savino CV, Chung CG, Gilmore ES, et al. Randomized Mechlorethamine/Chlormethine 
Induced	Dermatitis	 Assessment	Study	(MIDAS)	Establishes	Benefit	of	 Topical	Triamcinolone	
0.1%	Ointment	Cotreatment	in	Mycosis	Fungoides.	Dermatol	 Ther	(Heidelb).	2022;12:643-654.
Kim	EJ,	Guitart	J,	Querfeld	C,	et	al.	 The	PROVe	Study:	US	Real-World	Experience	with	
Chlormethine/Mechlorethamine	Gel	in	Combination	with	Other	 Therapies	for	Patients	with	
Mycosis	Fungoides	Cutaneous	 T-Cell	Lymphoma.	 Am	J	Clin	Dermato.	2021;22:	407-414.
Lessin SR, Duvic M, Guitart J, et al. Topical chemotherapy in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: positive 
results of a randomized, controlled, multicenter trial testing the efficacy and safety of a novel 
mechlorethamine,	0.02%,	gel	in	mycosis	fungoides.	JAMA 	Dermatol	2013;149:25-32.	
Querfeld	C,	Geskin	LJ,	Kim	EJ,	et	al.	Lack	of	Systemic	 Absorption	of	 Topical	Mechlorethamine	
Gel	in	Patients	with	Mycosis	Fungoides	Cutaneous	 T-Cell	Lymphoma.	J	Invest	Dermatol.	
2021;141:1601-1604.e2.
Local radiation 
Wilson	LD,	Kacinski	BM,	Jones	GW.	Local	superficial	radiotherapy	in	the	management	of	
minimal	stage	IA 	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma	(Mycosis	Fungoides).	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	
1998;40:109-115.
Neelis KJ, Schimmel EC, Vermeer MH, et al. Low-dose palliative radiotherapy for cutaneous  
B-	and	T-cell	lymphomas.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2009;74:154-158.	
Specht	L,	Dabaja	B,	Illidge	 T,	et	al.	Modern	radiation	therapy	for	primary	cutaneous	lymphomas:	
field and dose guidelines from the International Lymphoma Radiation Oncology Group. Int J 
Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2015;92:32-39.
Thomas	TO,	Agrawal	P,	Guitart	J,	et	al.	Outcome	of	patients	treated	with	a	single-fraction	dose	of	
palliative	radiation	for	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2013;85:747-
753.
Topical bexarotene 
Breneman	D,	Duvic	M,	Kuzel	 T,	et	al.	Phase	1	and	2	trial	of	bexarotene	gel	for	skin-directed	
treatment	of	patients	with	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	 Arch	Dermatol	2002;138:325-332.
Heald	P,	Mehlmauer	M,	Martin	 AG,	et	al.	 Topical	bexarotene	therapy	for	patients	with	refractory	  
or persistent early-stage cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: results of the phase III clinical trial. J Am 
Acad	Dermatol	2003;49:801-815.
Tazarotene gel
Apisarnthanarax N, Talpur R, Ward S, et al. Tazarotene 0.1% gel for refractory mycosis fungoides 
lesions:	an	open-label	pilot	study.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2004;50:600-607.
Topical imiquimod
Deeths	MJ,	Chapman	JT,	Dellavalle	RP,	et	al.	 Treatment	of	patch	and	plaque	stage	mycosis	
fungoides	with	imiquimod	5%	cream.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2005;52:275-280.Topical calcineurin inhibitor (pimecrolimus)
Ortiz-Romero	PL,	Jiménez	LM,	Muniesa	C,	et	al,	 Activity	and	safety	of	topical	pimecrolimus	in	patients	with	
early	stage	mycosis	fungoides	(PimTo-MF):	a	single-arm,	multicentre,	phase	2	trial.	Lancet	Haematol	
2022;9:e425-433.
Phototherapy (UVB and PUVA)
Gathers	RC,	Scherschun	L,	Malick	F,	et	al.	Narrowband	UVB	phototherapy	for	early-stage	mycosis	
fungoides.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2002;47:191-197.
Querfeld	C,	Rosen	ST,	Kuzel	 TM,	et	al.	Long-term	follow-up	of	patients	with	early-stage	cutaneous	 T-cell	
lymphoma who achieved complete remission with psoralen plus UV-A monotherapy. Arch Dermatol 
2005;141:305-311.
Ponte	P,	Serrao	V,	 Apetato	M.	Efficacy	of	narrowband	UVB	vs.	PUVA 	in	patients	with	early-stage	mycosis	
fungoides.	J	Eur	 Acad	Dermatol	Venereol	2010;24:716-721.	
Olsen EA, Hodak E, Anderson T, et al. Guidelines for phototherapy of mycosis fungoides and Sézary 
syndrome: A consensus statement of the United States Cutaneous Lymphoma Consortium. J Am Acad 
Dermatol	2018;74:27-58.	
UVA1 
Trovato	E,	Pellegrino	M,	Filippi	F,	et	al.	Clinical	and	histological	evaluation	in	patients	with	mycosis	
fungoides treated with UVA1. G Ital Dermatol Venereol 2020;155:306-311.
Adışen	E,	 Tektaş	V,	Erduran	F,	et	al.	Ultraviolet	 A1	phototherapy	in	the	treatment	of	early	mycosis	fungoides.	
Dermatology	2017;233:192-198.
Olek-Hrab	K,	Silny	W,	Dańczak-Pazdrowska	 A,	et	al.	Ultraviolet	 A1	phototherapy	for	mycosis	fungoides.	Clin	
Exp	Dermatol	2013;38:126-130.	
Jang	MS,	Jang	JY,	Park	JB,	et	al.	Erratum:	Folliculotropic	mycosis	fungoides	in	20	Korean	cases:	Clinical	
and histopathologic features and response to ultraviolet A-1 and/or photodynamic therapy. Ann Dermatol 
2018;30:510.	
Zane	C,	Leali	C,	 Airò	P,	et	al.	"High-dose"	UVA1	therapy	of	widespread	plaque-type,	nodular,	and	
erythrodermic	mycosis	fungoides.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2001;44:629-633.		
Total skin electron beam therapy (TSEBT) 
Chinn DM, Chow S, Kim YH, Hoppe RT. Total skin electron beam therapy with or without adjuvant topical 
nitrogen mustard or nitrogen mustard alone as initial treatment of T2 and T3 mycosis fungoides. Int J 
Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	1999;43:951-958.
Ysebaert L, Truc G, Dalac S, et al. Ultimate results of radiation therapy for T1-T2 mycosis fungoides. Int J 
Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2004;58:1128-1134.
Hoppe RT, Harrison C, Tavallaee M, et al. Low-dose total skin electron beam therapy as an effective 
modality to reduce disease burden in patients with mycosis fungoides: results of a pooled analysis from 3 
phase-II	clinical	trials.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2015;72:286-292.
Morris S, Scarisbrick J, Frew J, et al. The results of low-dose total skin electron beam radiation therapy 
(TSEB)	in	patients	with	mycosis	fungoides	from	the	UK	Cutaneous	Lymphoma	Group.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	
Biol	Phys	2017;99:627-633.
Specht	L,	Dabaja	B,	Illidge	 T,	et	al.	Modern	radiation	therapy	for	primary	cutaneous	lymphomas:	field	and	
dose	guidelines	from	the	International	Lymphoma	Radiation	Oncology	Group.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	
2015;92:32-39.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A  
11 OF 12SUGGESTED TREATMENT REGIMENS
REFERENCES
ContinuedSystemic Therapies
Alemtuzumab
Lundin	J,	Hagberg	H,	Repp	R,	et	al.	Phase	2	study	of	alemtuzumab	(anti-CD52	monoclonal	antibody)	in 	
patients	with	advanced	mycosis	fungoides/Sezary	syndrome.	Blood	2003;101:4267-4272.
Bernengo	MG,	Quaglino	P,	Comessatti	 A,	et	al.	Low-dose	intermittent	alemtuzumab	in	the	treatment	of	
Sezary	syndrome:	clinical	and	immunologic	findings	in	14	patients.	Haematologica	2007;92:784-794.
Gautschi	O,	Blumenthal	N,	Streit	M,	et	al.	Successful	treatment	of	chemotherapy-refractory	Sezary	
syndrome	with	alemtuzumab	(Campath-1H).	Eur	J	Haematol	2004;72:61-63.
Querfeld	C,	Mehta	N,	Rosen	ST,	et	al.	 Alemtuzumab	for	relapsed	and	refractory	erythrodermic	
cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: a single institution experience from the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive 
Cancer	Center.	Leuk	Lymphoma	2009;50:1969-1976.
Bortezomib
Zinzani	PL,	Musuraca	G,	 Tani	M,	et	al.	Phase	II	trial	of	proteasome	inhibitor	bortezomib	in	patients	with	
relapsed	or	refractory	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	J	Clin	Oncol	2007;25:4293-4297.
Brentuximab vedotin
Kim	YH,	Tavallaee	M,	Sundram	U,	et	al.	Phase	II	investigator-initiated	study	of	brentuximab	vedotin	
in mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome with variable CD30 expression level: A multi-institution 
collaborative	project.	J	Clin	Oncol	2015;33:3750-3758.
Prince	HM,	Kim	 YH,	Horwitz	SM,	et	al.	Brentuximab	vedotin	or	physician's	choice	in	CD30-positive	
cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma	(ALCANZA):	an	international,	open-label,	randomised,	phase	3,	
multicentre	trial.	Lancet	2017;390:555-566.
Denileukin diftitox-cxdl
Foss	FM,	Kim	 YH,	Prince	HMM,	et	al.	Efficacy	and	Safety	of	E7777	(improved	purity	Denileukin	diftitox	
[ONTAK])	in	patients	with	relapsed	or	refractory	cutaneous	 T-Cell	Lymphoma:	Results	from	Pivotal	
Study	302	[abstract].	Blood	2022;140:1491-1492.	
Prince	HMM,	Geskin	LJ,	 Akilov	OE,	et	al.	Safety	and	tolerability	of	E7777	(improved	purity	Denileukin	
diftitox	[ONTAK])	in	patients	with	relapsed	or	refractory	cutaneous	 T-Cell	Lymphoma:	Results	from	
Pivotal	Study	302	[abstract].	Blood	2022;140:6577-6578.	
Extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP)
Talpur R, Demierre MF, Geskin L, et al. Multicenter photopheresis intervention trial in early-stage 
mycosis	fungoides.	Clin	Lymphoma	Myeloma	Leuk	2011;11:219-227.	
Knobler	R,	Duvic	M,	Querfeld	C,	et	al.	Long-term	follow-up	and	survival	of	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma	
patients	treated	with	extracorporeal	photopheresis.	Photodermatol	Photoimmunol	Photomed	
2012;28:250-257.	
Atilla	E,	Atilla	PA,	Bozdag	SC,	et	al.	Extracorporeal	photochemotherapy	in	mycosis	fungoides.	 Transfus	
Clin	Biol	2017;24:454-457.	
Gao	C,	McCormack	C,	van	der	Weyden	C,	et	al.	Prolonged	survival	with	the	early	use	of	a	novel	
extracorporeal	photopheresis	regimen	in	patients	with	Sezary	syndrome.	Blood	2019;134:1346-1350.	
Gemcitabine
Duvic	M,	Talpur	R,	Wen	S,	et	al.	Phase	II	evaluation	of	gemcitabine	monotherapy	for	cutaneous	 T-cell	
lymphoma.	Clin	Lymphoma	Myeloma	2006;7:51-58.
Marchi E, Alinari L, Tani M, et al. Gemcitabine as frontline treatment for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: 
phase	II	study	of	32	patients.	Cancer	2005;104:2437-2441.
Zinzani	PL,	Baliva	G,	Magagnoli	M,	et	al.	Gemcitabine	treatment	in	pretreated	cutaneous	 T-cell	
lymphoma:	experience	in	44	patients.	J	Clin	Oncol	2000;18:2603-2606.Zinzani	PL,	Venturini	F,	Stefoni	V,	et	al.	Gemcitabine	as	single	agent	in	pretreated	 T-cell	lymphoma	
patients:	evaluation	of	the	long-term	outcome.	 Ann	Oncol	2010;21:860-863.	
Awar O, Duvic M. Treatment of transformed mycosis fungoides with intermittent low-dose gemcitabine. 
Oncology 2007;73:130-135.
Interferon
Olsen EA. Interferon in the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Dermatol Ther 2003;16:311-321.
Kaplan	EH,	Rosen	ST,	Norris	DB,	et	al.	Phase	II	study	of	recombinant	human	interferon	gamma	for	
treatment	of	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	J	Natl	Cancer	Inst	1990;82:208-212.
Liposomal doxorubicin
Pulini	S,	Rupoli	S,	Goteri	G,	et	al.	Pegylated	liposomal	doxorubicin	in	the	treatment	of	primary	
cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphomas.	Haematologica	2007;92:686-689
Quereux	G,	Marques	S,	Nguyen	JM,	et	al.	Prospective	multicenter	study	of	pegylated	liposomal	
doxorubicin treatment in patients with advanced or refractory mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome. 
Arch	Dermatol	2008;144:727-733.
Dummer	R,	Quaglino	P,	Becker	JC,	et	al.	Prospective	international	multicenter	phase	II	trial	of	
intravenous	pegylated	 liposomal	doxorubicin	monochemotherapy	in	 patients	with	stage	IIB,	IVA,	or	IVB	
advanced	mycosis	fungoides:	final	results	from	EORTC	21012.	J	Clin	Oncol	2012;30:4091-4097.
Weiner D, Ly A, Talluru S, et al. Efficacy of single-agent chemotherapy with pegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin or gemcitabine in a diverse cohort of patients with recalcitrant cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. 
Br	J	Dermatol	2024;190:436-438.
Falkenhain-Lopez	D,	Fulgencio-Barbarin	J,	Puerta-Pena	M,	et	al.	Single-centre	experience	of	using	
pegylated	liposomal	doxorubicin	as	maintenance	treatment	in	mycosis	fungoides.	Br	J	Dermatol	
2022;186:363-365.
Methotrexate
Zackheim	HS,	Kashani-Sabet	M,	Hwang	ST.	Low-dose	methotrexate	to	treat	erythrodermic	cutaneous	
T-cell	lymphoma:	results	in	twenty-nine	patients.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	1996;34:626-631.
Zackheim	HS,	Kashani-Sabet	M,	McMillan	 A.	Low-dose	methotrexate	to	treat	mycosis	fungoides:	a	
retrospective	study	in	69	patients.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2003;49:873-878.
Mogamulizumab
Kim	YH,	Bagot	M,	Pinter-Brown	L,	et	al.	Mogamulizumab	versus	vorinostat	in	previously	treated	
cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (MAVORIC): An international, open-label, randomised, controlled phase 3 
trial.	Lancet	Oncol	2018;19:1192-1204.
Pembrolizumab
Khodadoust	MS,	Rook	 AH,	Porcu	P,	et	al.	Pembrolizumab	in	relapsed	and	refractory	mycosis	fungoides	
and	Sezary	syndrome:	 A	multicenter	phase	II	study.	J	Clin	Oncol	2020;38:20-28.
Pentostatin
Cummings	FJ,	Kim	K,	Neiman	RS,	et	al.	Phase	II	trial	of	pentostatin	in	refractory	lymphomas	and	
cutaneous	 T-cell	disease.	J	Clin	Oncol	1991;9:565-571.
Greiner	D,	Olsen	EA,	Petroni	G.	Pentostatin	(2'-deoxycoformycin)	in	the	treatment	of	cutaneous	 T-cell	
lymphoma.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	1997;36:950-955.
Tsimberidou	 AM,	Giles	F,	Duvic	M,	et	al.	Phase	II	study	of	pentostatin	in	advanced	 T-cell	lymphoid	
malignancies.	Update	on	an	M.D.	 Anderson	Cancer	Center	Series.	Cancer	2004;100;342-349.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-A  
12 OF 12SUGGESTED TREATMENT REGIMENS
REFERENCES
Systemic Therapies (continued)
Pralatrexate
Horwitz SM, Kim YH, Foss F, et al. Identification of an active, well-tolerated dose of pralatrexate in patients 
with	relapsed	or	refractory	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Blood	2012;119:4115-4122.
Foss	F,	Horwitz	SM,	Coiffier	B,	et	al.	Pralatrexate	is	an	effective	treatment	for	relapsed	or	refractory	
transformed	mycosis	fungoides:	a	subgroup	efficacy	analysis	from	the	PROPEL 	study.	Clin	Lymphoma	
Myeloma	Leuk	2012;12:238-243.
Romidepsin
Piekarz	RL,	Frye	R,	 Turner	M,	et	al.	Phase	II	multi-institutional	trial	of	the	histone	deacetylase	inhibitor	
romidepsin	as	monotherapy	for	patients	with	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	J	Clin	Oncol	2009;27:5410-5417.
Whittaker SJ, Demierre MF, Kim EJ, et al. Final results from a multicenter, international, pivotal study of 
romidepsin	in	refractory	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	J	Clin	Oncol	2010;28:4485-4491.
Retinoids
Zhang	C,	Duvic	M.	 Treatment	of	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma	with	retinoids.	Dermatol	 Ther	2006;19:264-271.
Duvic	M,	Martin	 AG,	Kim	Y,	et	al.	Phase	2	and	3	clinical	trial	of	oral	bexarotene	(Targretin	capsules)	for	the	
treatment	of	refractory	or	persistent	early-stage	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	 Arch	Dermatol	2001;137:581-
593.
Duvic	M,	Hymes	K,	Heald	P,	et	al.	Bexarotene	is	effective	and	safe	for	treatment	of	refractory	advanced-
stage	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma:	multinational	phase	II-III	trial	results.	J	Clin	Oncol	2001;19:2456-2471.
Temozolomide
Tani	M,	Fina	M,	 Alinari	L,	et	al.	Phase	II	trial	of	temozolomide	in	patients	with	pretreated	cutaneous	 T-cell	
lymphoma.	Haematologica	2005;90:1283-1284.
Querfeld	C,	Rosen	ST,	Guitart	J,	et	al.	Multicenter	phase	II	trial	of	temozolomide	in	mycosis	fungoides/sezary	
syndrome: correlation with O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase and mismatch repair proteins. Clin 
Cancer	Res	2011;17:5748-5754.
Vorinostat
Duvic	M,	Talpur	R,	Ni	X,	et	al.	Phase	2	trial	of	oral	vorinostat	(suberoylanilide	hydroxamic	acid,	SAHA)	for	
refractory	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma	(CTCL).	Blood	2007;109:31-39.
Olsen	EA,	Kim	 YH,	Kuzel	 TM,	et	al.	Phase	IIb	multicenter	trial	of	vorinostat	in	patients	with	persistent,	
progressive,	or	treatment	refractory	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	J	Clin	Oncol	2007;25:3109-3115.
Duvic	M,	Olsen	EA,	Breneman	D,	et	al.	Evaluation	of	the	long-term	tolerability	and	clinical	benefit	of	
vorinostat	in	patients	with	advanced	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Clin	Lymphoma	Myeloma	2009;9:412-416.	
Combination Therapies
Systemic + skin-directed
Rupoli	S,	Goteri	G,	Pulini	S,	et	al.	Long-term	experience	with	low-dose	interferon-alpha	and	PUVA 	in	the	
management	of	early	mycosis	fungoides.	Eur	J	Haematol	2005;75:136-145.
Kuzel T, Roenigk H Jr, Samuelson E, et al. Effectiveness of interferon alfa-2a combined with phototherapy for 
mycosis	fungoides	and	the	Sézary	syndrome.	J	Clin	Oncol	1995;13:257-263.
McGinnis	K,	Shapiro	M,	Vittorio	C,	et	al.	Psoralen	plus	long-wave	UV-A 	(PUVA)	and	bexarotene	therapy:	
An effective and synergistic combined adjunct to therapy for patients with advanced cutaneous T cell 
lymphoma.	 Arch	Dermatol	2003;139:771-775.Wilson LD, Jones GW, Kim D, et al. Experience with total skin electron beam therapy in combination 
with	extracorporeal	photopheresis	in	the	management	of	patients	with	erythrodermic	(T4)	mycosis	
fungoides.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2000;43:54-60.
Stadler	R,	Otte	HG,	Luger	 T,	et	al.	Prospective	randomized	multicenter	clinical	trial	on	the	use	of	
interferon	alpha	-2a	plus	acitretin	versus	interferon	alpha	-2a	plus	PUVA 	in	patients	with	cutaneous	
T-cell	lymphoma	stages	I	and	II.	Blood	1998;92:3578-3581.
Systemic + systemic
Straus DJ, Duvic M, Kuzel T, et al. Results of a phase II trial of oral bexarotene (Targretin) combined with 
interferon	alfa-2b	(Intron-A)	for	patients	with	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Cancer	2007;109:1799-1803.
Talpur R, Ward S, Apisarnthanarax N, et al. Optimizing bexarotene therapy for cutaneous T-cell 
lymphoma.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2002;47:672-684.
Suchin KR, Cucchiara AJ, Gottleib SL, et al. Treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma with combined 
immunomodulatory	therapy:	a	14-year	experience	at	a	single	institution.	 Arch	Dermatol	2002;138:1054-
1060.
Raphael	BA,	Shin	DB,	Suchin	KR,	et	al.	High	clinical	response	rate	of	Sezary	syndrome	to	
immunomodulatory	therapies:	prognostic	markers	of	response.	 Arch	Dermatol	2011;147:1410-1415.
Allogeneic HCT
de	Masson	 A,	Beylot-Barry	M,	Bouaziz	JD,	et	al.	 Allogeneic	stem	cell	transplantation	for	advanced	
cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphomas:	a	study	from	the	French	Society	of	Bone	Marrow	 Transplantation	and	
French	Study	Group	on	Cutaneous	Lymphomas.	Haematologica	2014;99:527-534.
de	Masson	 A,	Beylot-Barry	M,	Ram-Wolff	C,	et	al.	 Allogeneic	transplantation	in	advanced	cutaneous	
T-cell lymphomas (CUTALLO): a propensity score matched controlled prospective study. Lancet 
2023;401:1941-1950.
Duarte	R,	Boumendil	 A,	Onida	F,	et	al.	Long-term	outcome	of	allogeneic	hematopoietic	cell	
transplantation for patients with mycosis fungoides and Sézary syndrome: a European society for blood 
and	marrow	transplantation	lymphoma	working	party	extended	analysis.	J	Clin	Oncol	2014;32:3347-
3348.	
Duarte RF, Schmitz N, Servitje O, Sureda A. Haematopoietic stem cell transplantation for patients with 
primary	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Bone	Marrow	 Transplant	2008;41:597-604.
Hosing	C,	Bassett	R,	Dabaja	B,	et	al.	 Allogeneic	stem-cell	transplantation	in	patients	with	cutaneous	
lymphoma:	updated	results	from	a	single	institution.	 Ann	Oncol	2015;26:2490-2495.	
Iqbal	M,	Reljic	 T,	Ayala	E,	et	al.	Efficacy	of	allogeneic	hematopoietic	cell	transplantation	in	cutaneous	
T	cell	lymphoma:	Results	of	a	systematic	review	and	meta-analysis.	Biol	Blood	Marrow	 Transplant	
2020;26:76-82.
Johnson WT, Mukherji R, Kartan S, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in advanced 
stage	mycosis	fungoides	and	Sezary	syndrome:	a	concise	review.	Chin	Clin	Oncol	2019;8:12.
Lechowicz M, Lazarus HM, Carreras J, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for mycosis 
fungoides	and	Sezary	syndrome.	Bone	Marrow	 Transplant	2014;49:1360-1365.
Weng WK, Arai S, Rezvani A, et al. Nonmyeloablative allogeneic transplantation achieves clinical and 
molecular	remission	in	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Blood	 Adv	2020;4:4474-4482.
Wu	PA,	Kim	 YH,	Lavori	PW,	et	al.	 A	meta-analysis	of	patients	receiving	allogeneic	or	autologous	
hematopoietic	stem	cell	transplant	in	mycosis	fungoides	and	Sezary	syndrome.	Biol	Blood	Marrow	
Transplant	2009;15:982-990.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-B  
1 OF 2SUPPORTIVE CARE FOR PATIENTS WITH MF/SS
Pruritus
• Assessment
Pruritus should be assessed 
Correlation between sites of disease and localization of pruritus 
may be useful in tailoring therapy
For severe or persistent pruritus despite therapeutic response 
other potential causes for pruritus should be investigated
• Treatment
Co-management with a dermatologist with expertise in skin care 
and CTCL
Optimized skin-directed and systemic therapy for MF/SS 
Mild, unscented soaps for bathing are gentle and optimal to 
prevent skin dryness
Moisturizers/emollients 
Topical steroid application (appropriate strength for body 
region) ± occlusion1
Topical over-the-counter preparations 
Systemic agents
 ◊First-line
 –H1 antihistamines; single agent or combination of 
antihistamines from different classes2
 –Gabapentin3,4
 –Pregabalin
 ◊Second-line
 –Aprepitant5-8
 –Mirtazapine4
 –Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)9
 ◊Third-line
 –Naltrexone10
 –Systemic steroidsCollaboration with dermatologist for supportive care is essential.
Infections
• Active or suspected infections
Cutaneous viral infections
 ◊High risk for skin dissemination of localized viral infections 
herpes simplex virus (HSV)/varicella zoster virus (VZV).
 ◊HSV prophylaxis with acyclovir or equivalent should be 
considered for patients with frequent recurrence of HSV 
infection. 
Erythroderma:
 ◊Swab of skin, nares, or other areas for cultures of 
Staphylococcus aureus infection or colonization
 ◊Intranasal mupirocin for S. aureus carriers
 ◊Oral dicloxacillin or cephalexin
 ◊Sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, doxycycline, minocycline, or 
clindamycin if suspected methicillin-resistant staphylococcus 
aureus (MRSA)
 ◊Vancomycin if no improvement or documented bacteremia
 ◊IV broad-spectrum antibiotics for S. aureus infection11
 ◊Bleach baths [1/2 cup of regular strength bleach (5%–6%) in 
full tub of water] or for limited areas, soaks (1 tsp of bleach 
in 1 gallon of water). Bleach baths should be taken for 5 to 10 
minutes two to three times a week maximum followed by tap 
water to rinse off the bleach water. Moisturizer should be put 
on immediately following the bleach bath or soak.
Ulcerated and necrotic tumors:
 ◊ Infection or colonization with Gram-negative rods should be 
considered in addition to the more common gram-positive 
organisms. 
 ◊Ulcer will not heal unless disease is treated. Consider local RT 
if feasible.
• Prophylaxis
Optimize skin barrier protection with moisturizing of skin
Consider mupirocin to the nares for S. aureus carriers  
Diluted bleach baths or soaks (if limited area) as noted above 
Minimize use of central lines when possible
For patients receiving alemtuzumab, see PCLYM-C
References on MFSS-B 2 of 2PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-B  
2 OF 2SUPPORTIVE CARE FOR PATIENTS WITH MF/SS
1 Yosipovitch G, Szolar C, Hui XY, Maibach H. High-potency topical corticosteroid rapidly decrease histamine-induced itch but not thermal sensation and pain in human 
beings.	J	Am	Acad	Dermatol	1996;35:118-120.
2 Eschler	D,	Klein	PA.	 An	evidence-based	review	of	the	efficacy	of	topical	antihistamines	in	the	relief	of	pruritus.	J	Drugs	Dermatol	2010;9:992-997.
3 Matsuda	KM,	Sharma	D,	Schonfeld	 AR,	Kwatra	SG.	Gabapentin	and	pregabalin	for	the	treatment	of	chronic	pruritus.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2016;75:619-625.
4	Demierre	MF,	 Taverna	J.	Mirtazapine	and	gabapentin	for	reducing	pruritus	in	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2006;55:543-544.
5 Jiménez	Gallo	D,	 Albarrán	Planelles	C,	Linares	Barrios	M,	et	al.	 Treatment	of	pruritus	in	early-stage	hypopigmented	mycosis	fungoides	with	aprepitant.	Dermatol	 Ther	
2014;27:178-182.	
6 Duval	A,	Dubertret	L.	 Aprepitant	as	an	antipruritic	agent?	N	Engl	J	Med	2009;361:1415-1416.	
7 Booken	N,	Heck	M,	Nicolay	JP,	et	al.	Oral	apepritant	in	the	therapy	of	refractory	pruritus	in	erythrodermic	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Br	J	Dermatol	2011;164:665-667.
8	Ladizinski	B,	Bazakas	 A,	Olsen	EA.	 Aprepitant:	 A	novel	neurokinin-1	receptor/substance	P 	antagonist	as	antipruritic	therapy	in	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	J	 Am	Acad	
Dermatol	2012;67:e198-e199.
9	Ständer	S,	Böckenholt	B,	Schürmeyer-Horst	F,	et	al.	 Treatment	of	chronic	pruritus	with	the	selective	serotonin	re-uptake	inhibitors	paroxetine	and	fluvoxamine:	results	
of	an	open-labelled,	two-arm	proof-of-concept	study.	 Acta	Derm	Venereol	2009;89:45-51.	
10 Brune	A,	Metze	D,	Luger	 T,	Ständer	S.	 Antipruritic	therapy	with	the	oral	opioid	receptor	antagonist	naltrexone.	Open,	non-placebo	controlled	administration	in	133	
patients.	Hautarzt	2004;55:1130-1136.
11 Lindahl	LM,	Willerslev-Olsen	 A,	Gjerdrum	LMR,	et	al.	 Antibiotics	inhibit	tumor	and	disease	activity	in	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Blood	2019;134:1072-1083.REFERENCESPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary SyndromeNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
MFSS-CPRINCIPLES OF PHOTOTHERAPY1
General Principles
• Phototherapy is used for several indications (including primary or 
adjuvant treatment for the lymphoma as well as to control pruritus) 
in cutaneous lymphomas, especially in MF, SS and lymphomatoid 
papulosis (LyP).
• Psoralen plus UVA (PUVA) carries an increased risk of melanoma 
and a higher risk of nonmelanoma skin cancers (NMSCs) than 
narrowband UVB (NBUVB). Therefore, the choice of whether 
to use PUVA is typically based on its deeper penetration in the 
skin, an important factor for patients with thick plaque disease or 
folliculotropism, particularly if phototherapy is used as sole therapy. 
• NBUVB is available in many more offices than PUVA and also as a 
home panel or unit.
• Hand/foot PUVA is an office-based procedure that can be used at 
the end of a treatment with whole body PUVA or NBUVB. If using 
following NBUVB, this involves a topical psoralen applied 20-30 
minutes prior to UVA exposure.
• UVA1 (available in limited centers) may offer deeper skin penetration 
without the need for psoralen and thus would allow for its use during 
pregnancy.
• Relative exclusions for NBUVB and PUVA include multiple NMSCs, 
photosensitivity (inherent, drug, or underlying condition) as well as 
physical and/or financial limitations.
• NBUVB and PUVA have certain exclusions for treatment based on 
medical conditions:
Xeroderma pigmentosa and photosensitive collagen vascular 
diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) for both 
PUVA and NBUVB
Melanoma and pregnancy for PUVA
Porphyria for NBUVB
Patients with a previously treated isolated thin melanoma that can 
be excluded from the field of UV light might be considered in certain 
circumstances for NBUVB. 
1 Olsen, EA, Hodak E, Anderson T et al Guidelines for phototherapy of mycosis fungoides and Sézary syndrome: A consensus statement of the United States 
Cutaneous	Lymphoma	Consortium.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2016;74:27-58.	Please	see	handout	information	for	patients	with	MF/SS	who	you	plan	to	treat	with	
either	NBUVB	or	PUVA.Dosing Guidelines
• The Fitzpatrick skin phototype is typically used to determine the 
initial and incremental energy dose for an individual patient. 
• When starting phototherapy, concomitant medications that are 
photosensitizers (such as the tetracyclines, amiodarone, and 
hydrochlorothiazide), a history of treatment that may have induced 
photosensitivity (such as mogamulizumab), recent TSEBT, or 
the presence of erythroderma should trigger consideration 
of decreasing the starting dose and reducing the rate of light 
escalation to prevent burning.
• If one of the retinoids (bexarotene, acitretin or isotretinoin; all 
photosensitizing) or systemic methotrexate is being added to 
phototherapy to enhance efficacy, consider lowering the current 
dose of light when starting the medication and taking the oral 
medication after, not immediately before, phototherapy.
• If phototherapy is being added to a treatment regimen that already 
includes a retinoid, the initial and incremental energy dose may 
need to be reduced and adjusted. 
• Patients that do not have involvement of their face may help to 
prevent skin cancers and accelerated aging by covering their face 
during phototherapy, recognizing that doing so, like covering 
genitals (recommended in males), creates a “privileged” site. 
• Topical medications, such as topical mechlorethamine or topical 
bexarotene, can be used with phototherapy but should be applied 
after, not before, phototherapy. 
• Patients on long term phototherapy, alone or in combination with 
other systemic or topical agents, should be on the lowest dose/
least frequent dosing to maintain response and carefully monitored 
for the development of actinic keratoses, NMSCs, and melanoma.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T-Cell Lymphoproliferative DisordersNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCTLD/INTRO-1Diagnosis on 
PCTLD-1a WHO	Classification	of	 Tumours	Editorial	Board.	Haematolymphoid	tumours.	
(WHO classification of tumours series, 5th ed.; vol. 11). Lyon (France): 
International	 Agency	for	Research	on	Cancer;	2024.;	Campo	E,	et	al.	Blood	
2022;140:1229-1253.	See	Classification	( ST-1).
b Vergier	B,	et	al.	 Am	J	Surg	Pathol	1998;22:1192-1202.
c Liu	HL,	et	al.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2003;49:1049-1058.
d Benner	MF,	Willemze	R.	 Arch	Dermatol	2009;145:1399-1404.• Primary cutaneous CD30+ T-cell LPDs represent a spectrum 
that includes primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma 
(ALCL), lymphomatoid papulosis (LyP), and “borderline” cases 
with overlapping clinical and histopathologic features.a,b,c
• Clinical correlation with histopathologic features is essential for 
establishing the diagnosis of primary cutaneous CD30+ T-cell 
LPDs; diagnosis cannot be made based on pathology review alone. 
Differential Diagnosis
• It is critical to distinguish CD30+ T-cell LPDs from other processes 
involving skin that may express CD30:
Systemic T-cell lymphomas (eg, ALCL, adult T-cell leukemia/
lymphoma [ATLL], peripheral T-cell lymphoma [PTCL]);
Other CD30+ cutaneous lymphomas such as MF, especially MF 
with LCT 
Benign disorders such as lymphomatoid drug reactions, 
arthropod bites, viral infections, and others. 
• Lymphomatoid drug reactions have been linked with certain drugs 
(eg, amlodipine, carbamazepine, cefuroxime, valsartan) and  may be 
associated with CD30+ atypical large cells in histology.
• MF and primary cutaneous CD30+ T-cell LPD can coexist in the 
same patient.Overview & Definition  • Primary cutaneous ALCL (PC-ALCL)
Represents about 8% of cutaneous lymphoma cases.a
Unlike systemic ALCL, PC-ALCL typically follows an indolent 
course and although cutaneous relapses are common, an excellent 
prognosis is usually maintained.d,e
Histologically characterized by diffuse, cohesive sheets of large 
CD30-positive (in >75%) cells with anaplastic, pleomorphic, or 
immunoblastic appearance.a
Clinical features typically include solitary or localized nodules or 
tumors (often ulcerated); multifocal lesions occur in about 20% 
of cases. Extracutaneous disease occurs in about 10% of cases, 
usually involving regional lymph nodes.a Patches and plaques may 
also be present and some degree of spontaneous remittance in 
lesions may also be seen.
• Lymphomatoid papulosis (LyP) 
LyP is included under the classification system for lymphomas 
(WHO-EORTC) but may be best classified a s an LPD as it is a 
frequently spontaneously regressing process.a
LyP has been reported to be associated with other lymphomas 
such as MF, PC-ALCL, systemic ALCL, or Hodgkin lymphoma.f,g
Lyp is h istologically  heterogeneous w ith large atypical anaplastic, 
immunoblastic, or Hodgkin-like cells in a marked inflammatory 
backgrounda; several histologic subtypes can be defined based on 
evolution of skin lesions.f
Lyp clinical features are characterized by chronic, recurrent, 
spontaneously regressing papulonodular (grouped or generalized) 
skin lesions.a,fPRINCIPLES OF PRIMARY CUTANEOUS CD30+ T-CELL LYMPHOPROLIFERATIVE DISORDERS (LPD)
e Woo	DK,	et	al.	 Arch	Dermatol	2009;145:667-674.
f Kempf	W,	et	al.	Blood	2011;118:4024-4035.
g Due to overlapping immunophenotype and morphology, need to use caution to not 
diagnose	CD30+	 T-cell	in	lymph	nodes	as	HL 	(Eberle	FC,	et	al.	 Am	J	Surg	Pathol	
2012;36:716-725).PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T-Cell Lymphoproliferative DisordersNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCTLD-1a Principles	of	Molecular	 Analysis	in	Primary	Cutaneous	Lymphomas	(PCLYM-B).
b Use	of	Immunophenotyping/Genetic	 Testing	in	Differential	Diagnosis	of	Mature	B-Cell	and	NK/T-Cell	Neoplasms	(See	NCCN	Guidelines	for	B-Cell	Lymphomas) .
c Typical	immunophenotype:	CD30+	(>75%	cells),	CD4+	variable	loss	of	CD2/CD5/CD3,	CD8+	(<5%)	cytotoxic	granule	proteins	positive.
d ALK	positivity	and	t(2;5)	translocation	is	typically	absent	in	PC-ALCL 	and	LyP.
e Clonal TCR gene rearrangements alone are not sufficient for diagnosis, as these can also be seen in patients with non-malignant conditions. Results should be 
interpreted in the context of overall presentation. See	Principles	of	Molecular	 Analysis	in	 T-Cell	Lymphomas	(TCLYM-A).
f See map for prevalence of HTLV-1/2 by geographic region. HTLV-1 has been described in patients in non-endemic areas.
g LyP	is	not	considered	a	malignant	disorder;	however,	there	is	an	association	with	other	lymphoid	malignancy	(MF	or	PC-ALCL).	Staging	studies	are	done	in	LyP 	only	if	
there is suspicion of systemic involvement by an associated lymphoma.DIAGNOSISa
ESSENTIAL:
• Clinical presentation: see Overview and Definition ( PCTLD/INTRO-1)
• Clinical pathologic correlation is essential
• Complete skin examination for any sign of benign or malignant skin lesions
• Biopsy of suspicious skin sites
Multiple biopsies may be necessary to capture the pathologic variability of 
disease at diagnosis
\Review of a sufficient number of slides with adequate material to perform a 
comprehensive workup as described below and/or at least one paraffin block 
representative of the tumor should be done by a pathologist with expertise in 
the diagnosis of CTCLs. Rebiopsy if pathological findings are non-diagnostic 
and/or discordant with the clinical presentation
Adequate biopsy (by punch, incisional, or excisional) of all types of clinical 
lesions present will aid in final diagnosis 
• Adequate immunophenotyping to establish diagnosisb,c on skin biopsy:
IHC panel may include: CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20, CD30, CD56, ALKd
USEFUL IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES:
• On skin biopsy, expanded IHC panel may include : CD2, CD5, CD7, CD25, TIA1, 
granzyme B, perforin, IRF4/MUM1, EMA, TCRꞵ, TCRδ
• EBER-ISH
• Molecular analysis to detect clonal TCR gene rearrangements or other 
assessment of clonalitya,e
• FISH: ALK and DUSP22  gene rearrangementsa
• Excisional or incisional biopsy of suspicious lymph nodes
• Assessment of HTLV-1/2 serologyf is encouraged as results can impact therapyPC-ALCL
CD30+ transformed MFWorkup 
(PCTLD-2)
Mycosis Fungoides  
(MFSS-1)LyPgWorkup 
(PCTLD-3)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T-Cell Lymphoproliferative DisordersNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCTLD-2h Monitoring the size and number of lesions will assist with response assessment.
i Patients	with	 T-cell	lymphomas	often	have	extranodal	disease,	which	may	be	
inadequately	imaged	by	CT.	FDG-PET 	scan	may	be	preferred	in	these	instances.
j Due to overlapping immunophenotype and morphology, need to use caution to avoid 
diagnosing	CD30+	 T-cell	in	lymph	nodes	as	HL 	(Eberle	FC,	et	al.	 Am	J	Surg	Pathol	
2012;36:716-725).WORKUP
PC-ALCLESSENTIAL:
• History and complete physical examination including complete skin 
examinationh; palpation of peripheral lymph node regions;  
liver or spleen enlargement 
• CBC with differential
• Comprehensive metabolic panel
• LDH
• C/A/P CT with contrast or integrated whole body FDG-PET/CT  (arms/legs 
included when disease assessment of entire body is needed)i 
• Biopsy suspicious nodesj,k,l: Biopsy of enlarged lymph nodes or suspected 
extracutaneous sites. Excisional or adequate core needle biopsy is 
preferred. An FNA biopsy alone is not sufficient for the initial diagnosis of 
lymphoma. Rebiopsy if consult material is nondiagnostic. 
USEFUL IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES
• Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy (optional for solitary cutaneous ALCL 
or cutaneous ALCL without extracutaneous involvement on imaging)
• Pregnancy testing in patients of childbearing potential if contemplating 
treatments that are contraindicated in pregnancym
• Discuss fertility preservationnPC-ALCL 
PC-ALCL with 
regional node
Systemic ALCLPCTLD-4
See NCCN 
Guidelines for  
T-Cell Lymphomas - 
Peripheral T-Cell 
(PTCL-1)
k Consider	systemic	 ALCL,	regional	lymph	node	involvement	with	PC-ALCL,	or	
lymph node involvement with transformed MF.
l Consider	PC-ALCL 	if	in	draining	lymph	nodes	only.
m Many skin-directed and systemic therapies are contraindicated or are of 
unknown safety in pregnancy. Refer to individual drug information.
n Fertility preservation options include: sperm banking, semen cryopreservation, 
IVF, or ovarian tissue or oocyte cryopreservation.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T-Cell Lymphoproliferative DisordersNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCTLD-3g LyP	is	not	considered	a	malignant	disorder;	however,	there	is	an	association	with	other	lymphoid	malignancy	(MF	or	PC-ALCL).	Staging	studies	are	done	in	LyP 	only	if	
there is suspicion of systemic involvement by an associated lymphoma.
h Monitoring the size and number of lesions will assist with response assessment.
i Patients	with	 T-cell	lymphomas	often	have	extranodal	disease,	which	may	be	inadequately	imaged	by	CT.	FDG-PET 	scan	may	be	preferred	in	these	instances.
m Many skin-directed and systemic therapies are contraindicated or are of unknown safety in pregnancy. Refer to individual drug information.n Fertility preservation options include: sperm banking, semen cryopreservation, IVF, or ovarian tissue or oocyte cryopreservation.
o Only done to exclude an associated lymphoma.LyPgESSENTIAL:
• History and complete physical examination including complete skin examinationh; palpation 
of peripheral lymph node regions; liver or spleen enlargement
• CBC with differential
• Comprehensive metabolic panel
• LDH
USEFUL IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES:
• Pregnancy testing in patients of childbearing potential if contemplating treatments that are 
contraindicated in pregnancym
• Discuss fertility preservationn
• C/A/P CT with contrast or integrated whole body FDG-PET/CT  (arms/legs included when 
disease assessment of entire body is needed)g,i,o (not done for typical LyP)
• Neck CT with contrast if whole body FDG-PET/CT not don e (not done for typical LyP)
• Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy (not done for typical LyP)g,oPCTLD-5WORKUPPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T-Cell Lymphoproliferative DisordersNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCTLD-4p Regression	of	lesions	may	occur	in	up	to	44%	of	cases.
q Biopsy-proven	lymphoma	in	lymph	node.
r Therapy	References	(PCTLD-A).
s Principles	of	Radiation	 Therapy	(PCLYM-A).
t Small lesions may be excised with minimal non-disfiguring surgery.
u Supportive	Care	for	Patients	with	Cutaneous	Lymphomas	(PCLYM-C).
v Limited data from case reports (eg, bexarotene).
w Peginterferon	may	be	substituted	for	other	interferon	preparations	(Schiller	M,	
et	al.	J	Eur	 Acad	Dermatol	Venerol	2017;31:1841-1847;	Patsatsi	 A,	et	al.	J	Eur	
Acad	Dermatol	Venereol	2022;36:e291-e293;	Osman	S,	et	al.	Dermatologic	
Therapy	2023;2023:7171937).SUBTYPE EXTENT OF 
DISEASEPRIMARY 
TREATMENTrFOLLOW-UPyRELAPSED/REFRACTORY 
DISEASE
PC- 
ALCLp
PC-ALCL with regional 
nodeq (N1) (See CUTB-A  
for N definition) (excludes 
systemic ALCL)Solitary or 
grouped 
lesions
Multifocal 
lesionsISRTs
or
Surgical excisiont ± ISRTs
Preferred regimen 
• Brentuximab vedotinu
Other recommended regimens ± 
skin-directed therapies (MFSS-A) 
• Methotrexate (≤50 mg weekly)
• Systemic retinoidsv 
• Pralatrexate
• Observation, if asymptomatic
• Interferonw (category 3)
Preferred regimens
• Brentuximab vedotinu ± ISRTs 
• ISRTs,x in selected cases
Other recommended regimens
• Brentuximab vedotinu + 
CHP (cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin, and prednisone)
• Methotrexate ± ISRTs,x
• Pralatrexate ± ISRTs,x
• CHOP or CHOEP ± ISRTs,x in 
selected cases Responsez
No response/ 
refractory 
diseaseObserve for 
recurrence• Retreat with initial treatment 
if disease confined to skin
• For multifocal lesions or 
extracutaneous involvement, 
see multifocal lesions below
Responsez
No response/ 
refractory diseaseObserve for 
recurrence
• Clinical trial
• Retreat with same regimen 
(unless refractory or 
intolerant) 
• Alternative regimen not used 
for primary treatment 
• Systemic Therapies for 
Large-Cell Transformation 
(LCT) (Table 6 - Suggested 
Regimens for MF with LCT )Responsez
No response/ 
refractory diseaseObserve for 
recurrence
x ISRT to include lymph node(s) ± primary skin lesions.
y Mycosis fungoides can develop over time; continue to conduct thorough skin exam 
during follow-up.
z Patients	with	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	primary	
treatment should be considered for maintenance or tapering of regimens to optimize 
response duration. Relapsed disease often responds well to the same treatment. 
Partial	response	should	be	treated	with	other	primary	treatment	options	not	received	
before to improve response before moving onto treatment for refractory disease. 
Patients	with	disease	relapse	or	persistent	disease	after	initial	primary	treatment	may	
be candidates for clinical trials .See Multifocal 
lesions belowPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T-Cell Lymphoproliferative DisordersNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCTLD-5r Therapy	References	(PCTLD-A).
u Supportive	Care	for	Patients	with	Cutaneous	Lymphomas	(PCLYM-C).
v Limited data from case reports (eg, bexarotene).
z Patients	with	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	primary	treatment	should	be	considered	for	maintenance	or	tapering	of	regimens	to	optimize	
response duration. 	Relapsed	disease	often	responds	well	to	the	same	treatment.	Partial	response	should	be	treated	with	the	other	primary	treatment	options	not	
received before to impr ove	response	before	moving	onto	treatment	for	refractory	disease.	Patients	with	disease	relapse	or	persistent	disease	after	initial	primary	
treatment may be candidates for clinical trials.
aa NB-UVB	is	generally	preferred	over	PUVA.
bb Kempf	W,	et	al.	Blood	2011;118:4024-4035.
cc Life-long follow-up is warranted due to high  risk for second lymphoid malignancies; continue to conduct thorough skin exam during follow-up.SUBTYPE EXTENT OF 
DISEASEPRIMARY TREATMENTrFOLLOW-UPccRELAPSED/REFRACTORY DISEASE
LyPLimited lesions, 
asymptomatic
Extensive lesionsObservation 
(preferred)
or
Topical steroids 
Observation (preferred for 
asymptomatic)
or
Methotrexate (10–35 mg weeklybb)
or
Phototherapyaa 
or
Systemic retinoidsv
or
Topical steroids 
or
Topical mechlorethamine 
(nitrogen mustard)Responsez
No response/refractory 
disease
Responsez
No response/ 
refractory diseaseObserve 
for 
recurrenceContinue current 
management 
Alternative regimen not used for 
primary treatment
or
Other regimens 
or 
Clinical trial
Clinical trial
or
Observation
or
Retreat with primary 
treatment or treat 
with alternative 
regimen not 
used for primary 
treatmentRefractory 
disease  
Clinical trial 
or
Brentuximab 
vedotinu Clinical trial  
or 
Alternative regimen 
not used for primary 
treatmentLimited lesions, 
symptomaticTopical steroids
or 
Phototherapyaa
or
Observation
Refractory 
disease  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T-Cell Lymphoproliferative DisordersNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCTLD-ATHERAPY REFERENCES
Skin-Directed Therapies
Topical steroids
Paul	MA,	Krowchuk	DP,	Hitchcock	MG,	Jorizzo	JL.	Lymphomatoid	papulosis:	
successful weekly pulse superpotent topical corticosteroid therapy in three 
pediatric	patients.	Pediatr	Dermatol	1996;13:501-506.
Phototherapy
Wantzin	GL,	 Thomsen	K.	PUVA-treatment	in	lymphomatoid	papulosis.	Br	J	
Dermatol	1982;107:687-690.
Topical nitrogen mustard
Vonderheid EC, Tan ET, Kantor AF, et al. Long-term efficacy, curative potential, 
and carcinogenicity of topical mechloethamine chemotherapy in cutaneous T cell 
lymphoma.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	1989;20:416-428.
Radiation therapy
Million L, Yi EJ, Wu F, et al. Radiation therapy for primary cutaneous anaplastic 
large cell lymphoma: An International Lymphoma Radiation Oncology Group 
Multi-institutional	Experience.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2016;95:1454-1459.
Specht	L,	Dabaja	B,	Illidge	 T,	et	al.	Modern	radiation	therapy	for	primary	
cutaneous lymphomas: field and dose guidelines from the International 
Lymphoma	Radiation	Oncology	Group.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2015;92:32-
39.
Smith	GL,	Duvic	M,	Yehia	ZA,	et	al.	Effectiveness	 of	low-dose	radiation	for	primary	
cutaneous	anaplastic	large	cell	lymphoma.	 Adv	Radiat	Oncol	2017;2:363-369.
Systemic Therapies 
Brentuximab vedotin
Prince	HM,	Kim	 YH,	Horwitz	SM,	et	al.	Brentuximab	vedotin	or	physician's	choice	
in	CD30-positive	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma	(ALCANZA):	an	international,	
open-label,	randomised,	phase	3,	multicentre	trial.	Lancet	2017;390:555-566.
Duvic	M,	Tetzlaff	MT,	Gangar	P,	et	al.	Results	of	a	phase	II	trial	of	brentuximab	
vedotin	for	CD30+	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma	and	lymphomatoid	papulosis.	J	
Clin	Oncol	2015;33:3759-3765.
Lewis	DJ,	 Talpur	R,	Huen	 AO,	et	al.	Brentuximab	Vedotin	for	Patients	With	
Refractory	Lymphomatoid	Papulosis:	 An	Analysis	of	Phase	2	Results.	JAMA 	
Dermatol 2017;153:1302-1306.
Brentuximab vedotin + CHP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and 
prednisone)
Horwitz	S,	O'Connor	OA,	Pro	B,	et	al.	Brentuximab	vedotin	with	chemotherapy	for	
CD30-positive peripheral T-cell lymphoma (ECHELON-2): a global, double-blind, 
randomised,	phase	3	trial.	Lancet	2019;393:229-240.Systemic Therapies (continued)
Interferons
Proctor	SJ,	Jackson	GH,	Lennard	 AL,	Marks	J.	Lymphotoid	papulosis:	response	to	treatment	with	
recombinant	interferon	alfa-2b.	J	Clin	Oncol	1992;10:170.
Schmuth	M,	 Topar	G,	Illersperger	B,	et	al.	 Therapeutic	use	of	interferon-alpha	for	lymphomatoid 	
papulosis.	Cancer	2000;89:1603-1610.
Methotrexate
Everett	MA.	 Treatment	of	lymphomatoid	papulosis	with	methotrexate.	Br	J	Dermatol	1984;111:631.
Vonderheid EC, Sajjadian A, Kaden ME. Methotrexate is effective for lymphomatoid papulosis and 
other	primary	cutaneous	CD30+	lymphoproliferative	disorders.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	1996;34:470-481.
Fujita	H,	Nagatani	 T,	Miyazawa	M,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	anaplastic	large	cell	lymphoma	
successfully	treated	with	low-dose	methotrexate.	Eur	J	Dermatol	2008;18:360-361.
Pralatrexate
Horwitz SM, Kim YH, Foss F, et al. Identification of an active, well-tolerated dose of pralatrexate in 
patients	with	relapsed	or	refractory	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Blood	2012;119:4115-4122.
Systemic retinoids
Nakamura	S,	Hashimoto	 Y,	Nishi	K,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	CD30+	lymphoproliferative	disorder	
successfully	treated	with	etretinate.	Eur	J	Dermatol	2012;22:709-710.
Krathen	RA,	Ward	S,	Duvic	M.	Bexarotene	is	a	new	treatment	option	for	lymphomatoid	papulosis.	
Dermatology	2003;206:142-147.
Wyss M, Dummer R, Dommann SN, et al. Lymphomatoid papulosis--treatment with recombinant 
interferon	alfa-2a	and	etretinate.	Dermatology	1995;190:288-291.
Sheehy	JM,	Catherwood	M,	Pettengell	R,	Morris	 TCC.	Sustained	response	of	primary	cutaneous	
CD30+	anaplastic	large	cell	lymphoma	to	bexarotene	and	photopheresis.	Leuk	Lymphoma	
2009;50:1389-1391.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Subcutaneous Panniculitis-Like T-Cell LymphomaNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
SPTCL/INTRO-1PRINCIPLES FOR SUBCUTANEOUS PANNICULITIS-LIKE T-CELL LYMPHOMA (SPTCL)
• There is only modest evidence for the management of SPTCL. The following guidelines are based on expert consensus. Treatment options 
are based on the presence of HLH and tumor burden as outlined in SPTCL-2 and SPTCL-3. 
• SPTCL is a very rare condition characterized by mature medium size CD8+ activated T-cells with tropism towards adipocytes in the 
subcutaneous tissue and in extraordinary cases involving adipocytes at other sites, like mesentery.
• Patients with SPTCL tend to be young, often with a personal or family history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or other autoimmune 
disorders.
• The presentation includes non-ulcerated deep nodules typically involving legs and other sites. The process may resolve with areas of 
lipodystrophy and hyperpigmentation.
• Fever and malaise are commonly observed at presentation. Signs and symptoms of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) may 
occasionally lead to severe morbidity or mortality. Markers of HLH should be checked when SPTCL is suspected with ferritin levels as a 
reliable marker to assess disease evolution (See NCCN Guidelines for T-Cell Lymphomas (TCLYM-B [4 of 4]). 
• Rimming of bone marrow adipocytes by CD8+ T-cells may be observed, but tumoral growth in nodal, bone marrow, or mesenchymal organs 
is not typically seen. This limited growth potential, along with the lack of common lymphoma driver mutations and the frequent detection 
of germline mutations in the HAVCR2 gene suggest an immune dysregulation characterized by unchecked activated T-cells driving the 
process. HAVCR2 encodes for T-cell immunoglobulin and Mucin-domain protein 3 (TIM-3), a membrane modulator of immune response 
resulting in hemophagocytosis and uncontrolled activation of the innate immune system. HAVCR2 mutations appears to be more prevalent 
in patients of Asian ancestry. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Subcutaneous Panniculitis-Like T-Cell LymphomaNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
SPTCL-1DIAGNOSISaWORKUP
ESSENTIAL:
• Deep subcutaneous skin biopsy with adequate amount 
of adipose tissue (wedge excision or deep telescope 
punch biopsy) of clinical lesions:
Multiple biopsies may be necessary to confirm 
diagnosis 
Review of a sufficient number of slides with adequate 
material to perform a comprehensive work-up as 
described below and/or at least one paraffin block 
representative of the tumor should be done by a 
pathologist with expertise in the diagnosis of CTCLs. 
Rebiopsy if pathological findings are non-diagnostic 
and/or discordant with the clinical presentation
• Adequate immunophenotyping to establish diagnosisb
IHC panel may include: TCRß, TCRẟ, CD2, CD3, CD20, 
CD4, CD5, CD7, CD8, CD30, CD56 
• EBER-ISH
• Molecular analysis to detect clonal T-cell receptor 
(TCR) gene rearrangements or other assessment of 
clonality
USEFUL UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES: 
• Additional IHC markers may include: Ki67, CD123, 
TIA1, perforin, granzyme-B, CD1a, TdT, TCL1
• Consider peripheral blood flow cytometry to rule out 
other T-cell lymphoma subtypes
• Germline testing for HAVCR2 mutation
• Comprehensive genomic profilingESSENTIAL:
• History and complete physical examination:
Complete skin examination
Palpation of peripheral lymph node regions
Palpation for organomegaly/masses
Potential triggers for recent infections
Personal or family history of autoimmunity, consanguinity, 
ancestry, etc
• CBC with differential
• Comprehensive metabolic panel
• LDH, ferritin
• HLH workup if B symptoms or HLH is suspected (See NCCN 
Guidelines for T-Cell Lymphomas [TCLYM-B]) 
• Whole body FDG-PET/CT scanc to assess the extent of 
subcutaneous involvement and exclude systemic involvement
USEFUL UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES: 
• Pregnancy testing in patients of childbearing potential 
if contemplating treatments that are contraindicated in 
pregnancy
• Consider quantitative Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR)
• Antinuclear antibody (ANA) with reflex, rheumatoid factor (RF), 
TSH, and primary immunodeficiency (PID) gene panel to rule 
out other autoimmune conditions that closely resemble SPTCL
• Consider bone marrow biopsy, if unexplained cytopenias or 
HLH
• Consider biopsy of enlarged lymph nodes or other suspected 
FDG-PET–avid extracutaneous sites SPTCL-2
a Borderline	or	low	grade	presentations	that	may	overlap	with	lupus	panniculitis	and	evolve	into	SPTCL 	(eg,	adipotropic	LPD,	necrotizing,	infectious	or	granulomatous	
panniculitis	and	other	cutaneous	lymphomas	[primary	cutaneous	gamma-delta	 T-cell	lymphoma,	primary	cutaneous	NKTL 	or	PTCL]	should	be	included	in	the	
differential diagnosis.
b Typical	immunophenotype:	CD3+	CD8+	βF1+	CD2+	CD5+	CD7+.
c Patients	have	extranodal	disease,	which	may	be	inadequately	imaged	by	CT.	PET 	scan	is	preferred.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Subcutaneous Panniculitis-Like T-Cell LymphomaNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
SPTCL-2d Consider ISRT for single lesion or limited disease with or without symptoms or HLH.
e Start with etoposide-based regimens to control HLH first and then move to disease-specific therapies. 
f Consider etoposide-based combination regimens for patients eligible for transplant.
g Oral	cyclosporine	is	typically	initiated	at	3–5	mg/kg/day	in	divided	doses.	Higher	dosage	may	be	necessary	to	achieve	disease	control.	Dose	adjustment	is	based	
on response and tolerance. In patients with disease responding to first-line therapy, consider slow tapering as tolerated or cyclosporine maintenance. 
h Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	first-line	therapy	should	be	considered	for	maintenance	or	tapering	of	
regimens to optimize response duration.FIRST-LINE THERAPYd,e,f
SPTCL with 
HLH, systemic 
disease, or high 
tumor burden 
(widespread 
subcutaneous 
disease)Consider single 
agents with or without 
prednisone:
• Cyclosporine (≥5 mg/
kg/day)g 
• Pralatrexate
• Romidepsin
or
Consider etoposide-
based combination 
chemotherapyf 
• CHOEP
• DA-EPOCH
• ESHA + platinum 
(cisplatin or oxaliplatin)
• ICEClinical trial
or
Consider allogeneic 
HCT in selected 
patients
or
Alternate regimens
(See NCCN 
Guidelines for  
T-Cell Lymphomas 
- Initial Palliative-
Intent Therapy PTCL-
NOS [PTCL-B 2 of 8] )RESPONSE ASSESSMENT AND ADDITIONAL THERAPY CLINICAL 
PRESENTATION
Inadequate 
responseRelapse or refractory 
disease after multiple 
previous therapiesCR or 
PRObservation 
or 
Maintenance therapy 
with single agentsh
• Cyclosporine
• Pralatrexate 
• Romidepsin
• Methotrexate (PO/
SC/IM)
• Bexarotene (PO)
or 
Consider allogeneic 
HCT in selected 
patientsRelapse
SPTCL without HLH 
and low tumor burden 
(localized or limited 
subcutaneous disease)SPTCL-3Retreat with same 
regimen or alternate 
regimen not used in 
first-line therapyPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Subcutaneous Panniculitis-Like T-Cell LymphomaNCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
SPTCL-3FIRST-LINE 
THERAPY
Consider single 
agents with or 
without prednisone:
• Cyclosporine (≥5 
mg/kg/day)g
• Methotrexate (PO/
SC/IM)
• Bexarotene (PO)
or
Local therapy 
(ISRTd or 
intralesional 
steroids)SPTCL without 
HLH and low 
tumor burden 
(localized 
or limited 
subcutaneous 
disease)d
d Consider ISRT for single lesion or limited disease with or without symptoms or HLH.
g Oral	cyclosporine	is	typically	initiated	at	3–5	mg/kg/day	in	divided	doses.	Higher	dosage	may	be	necessary	to	achieve	disease	control.	Dose	adjustment	is	based	on	
response and tolerance. In patients with disease responding to first-line therapy, consider slow tapering as tolerated or cyclosporine maintenance. 
h Patients	with	disease	achieving	a	clinical	benefit	and/or	those	with	disease	responding	to	first-line	therapy	should	be	considered	for	maintenance	or	tapering	of	
regimens to optimize response duration.RESPONSE ASSESSMENT AND ADDITIONAL THERAPY CLINICAL 
PRESENTATION
Inadequate 
response Alternate regimens 
not used for first-line 
therapy
or
Local therapy (if not 
previously used for 
first-line therapy)
or
Consider pralatrexate 
or romidepsin, 
with or without 
prednisoneClinical trial 
or 
Consider alternate 
regimens not 
previously used 
(SPTCL with HLH, 
systemic disease, 
or high tumor 
burden [widespread 
subcutaneous 
diseased SPTCL-2])RelapseRetreat with same 
regimen or alternate 
regimen not used in 
first-line therapy
Relapse or 
refractory disease 
after multiple 
previous therapies
or
Progressive diseaseObservation 
or
Maintenance therapy 
with single agentsh
• Cyclosporine
• Methotrexate
• Bexarotene
Clinical trial 
or 
Alternate regimens 
(See NCCN 
Guidelines for  
T-Cell Lymphomas 
- Initial Palliative-
Intent Therapy 
PTCL-NOS [PTCL-B 
2 of 8])CR or 
PRPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCLYM-A  
1 OF 3PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPYa
General Principles 
• The general intent of RT is to treat the evident skin disease with adequate margin both circumferentially and in depth.
• External beam radiation therapy (EBRT) with photons, electrons, or low-energy x-rays may all be appropriate, depending on clinical 
circumstances. 
Target Volumes
• ISRT for cutaneous lesions:
ISRT is recommended as the appropriate field for treating primary cutaneous lymphomas.  
Planning to define the clinical target volume (CTV) may often only require a careful physical exam. However , when the depth of disease is 
not evident or when disease extends around curved surfaces, treatment planning may be facilitated by ultrasound imaging or CT-based 
simulation and planning. Incorporating other modern imaging like PET and MRI may enhance treatment volume determination in some 
cases.
ISRT targets the site of skin involvement. The volume encompasses the clinically evident disease with adequate margins. 
The visible or palpable disease defines the gross tumor volume (GTV) and provides the basis for determining the CTV . If using CT-based 
planning, delineating tumor boundary with wire for CT simulation will guide treatment volumes. Concerns for questionable subclinical 
disease and uncertainties in original imaging accuracy or localization will lead to expansion of the CTV and are determined individually 
using clinical judgment but generally include a margin of 1–2 cm both circumferentially and in depth. The CTV need not be expanded into 
intact bone.
The planning target volume (PTV) is an additional expansion of the CTV that accounts only for setup variations (see ICRU definitions).
The treatment plan is designed using conventional or 3-D conformal techniques using clinical treatment planning considerations of 
coverage and dose reductions for organs at risk (OARs). 
• ISRT for nodal disease:
Principles of Radiation Therapy for T-Cell Lymphomas (Target Volumes: ISRT for nodal disease).
Principles of Radiation Therapy for B-Cell Lymphomas (Target Volumes: ISRT for nodal disease).
Continued a References	on	PCLYM-A 	3	of	3.• Radiation Dose Constraints – Recommendations for normal tissue dose constraints can be found in the Principles of 
Radiation Therapy NCCN Guidelines for Hodgkin LymphomaPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCLYM-A  
2 OF 3PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPYa
General Dose Guidelines: (RT in conventional fraction sizes)
• PCMZL and PCFCL:
Optimal initial management for solitary/regional disease is with 24–30 Gy EBRT. Alternatively, lower doses (eg, 4 Gy) may be used initially, 
with supplemental RT (4–20 Gy) for inadequate response or subsequent local relapse though data with this approach are limited.
 ◊Surface margins beyond area of clinically evident disease will vary depending on lesion size and body site and must take into account 
dosimetry of the beam being used. Surface margins of 1.0–1.5 cm are generally adequate.
 ◊Margins in depth should include the volume at risk for involvement.
 ◊Generally, treatment with 6–9 MeV electrons (with surface bolus) provides an adequate depth of treatment. Alternatively, low-energy 
x-rays (~100 Kv) may be used. 
 ◊Doses as low as 4 Gy are used occasionally, but data are limited regarding response and duration.
RT for relapsed disease: 4 Gy EBRT may be adequate.
• MF/SS
Treatment of individual patches, plaques, or tumors
 ◊Optimal management for individual plaque and tumor lesions is with EBRT. Low-dose local RT (8–12 Gy) is given with palliative intent 
(usually as combined modality therapy). Some Member Institutions are exploring the use of lower dose options (eg, 4 Gy). Up to 8 Gy can 
be given in a single fraction, although lower dose per fraction (3–5 Gy) may be preferred depending on skin condition, irradiation volume, 
and prior RT.
 ◊For unilesional MF at initial presentation, the definitive RT dose is 24–30 Gy . 
 ◊Surface margins beyond area of clinically evident disease will vary depending on lesion size and body site and must take into account 
dosimetry of the beam being used. Surface margins of 1.0–1.5 cm are generally adequate.
 ◊Margins in depth should include the volume at risk for involvement.
 ◊Generally, treatment with 6–9 MeV electrons (with surface bolus) provides an adequate depth of treatment. Alternatively, low-energy 
x-rays (~100 Kv) may be used.
 ◊For certain body surfaces, higher energy photon fields and opposed-field treatment (with bolus) may be required.
TSEBT
 ◊A variety of techniques may be utilized to cover the entire cutaneous surface. Patients are generally treated in the standing position on 
a rotating platform or with multiple body positions to ensure total skin coverage.
 ◊The common dose is ~12 Gy, generally 4–6 Gy per week. Higher doses (24–36 Gy) have been used for more extensive or refractory 
disease. The advantages of a lower dose includes fewer short-term complications and better ability to retreat for relapsed disease
 ◊“Shadowed” areas may need to be supplemented with individual electron fields.
 ◊Individual tumors may be boosted with doses of 4–12 Gy.
 ◊For patients with recalcitrant sites after generalized skin treatment, additional local treatment may be needed.
a References	on	PCLYM-A 	3	of	3.ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCLYM-A  
3 OF 3PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
Akhtari	M,	Reddy	JP,	Pinnix	CC,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma	(non-leg	type)	has	excellent	outcomes	even	after	very	low	dose	radiation	as	single-modality	
therapy.	Leuk	Lymphoma	2016;57:34-38.	
Goyal	A,	Carter	JB,	Pashtan	I,	et	al.	Very	low-dose	versus	standard	dose	radiation	therapy	for	indolent	primary	cutaneous	B-cell	lymphomas:	 A	retrospective	study.	J	
Am	Acad	Dermatol	2018;78:408-410.	
Hoppe RT, Harrison C, Tavallaee M, et al. Low-dose total skin electron beam therapy as an effective modality to reduce disease burden in patients with mycosis 
fungoides:	results	of	a	pooled	analysis	from	3	phase-II	clinical	trials.	J	 Am	Acad	Dermatol	2015;72:286-292.	
Million L, Yi EJ, Wu F, et al. Radiation therapy for primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma: An International Lymphoma Radiation Oncology Group Multi-
institutional	Experience.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2016;95:1454-1459.
Neelis	KJ,	Schimmel	EC,	Vermeer	MH,	et	al.	Low-dose	palliative	radiotherapy	for	cutaneous	B-	and	 T-cell	lymphomas.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2009;74:154-158.	
Patel	AM,	West	L,	 Atluri	PS,	et	al.	Optimizing	palliative	focal	radiation	therapy	dose	in	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma:	How	low	can	you	Go?	Pract	Radiat	Oncol	
2023;13:e192-e199.		
Smith	GL,	Duvic	M,	 Yehia	ZA,	et	al.	Effectiveness	of	low-dose	radiation	for	primary	cutaneous	anaplastic	large	cell	lymphoma.	 Adv	Radiat	Oncol	2017;2:363-369.
Specht	L,	Dabaja	B,	Illidge	 T,	et	al.	Modern	radiation	therapy	for	primary	cutaneous	lymphomas:	field	and	dose	guidelines	from	the	International	Lymphoma	Radiation	
Oncology	Group.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	Biol	Phys	2015;92:32-39.
Thomas	TO,	Agrawal	P,	Guitart	J,	et	al.	Outcome	of	patients	treated	with	a	single-fraction	dose	of	palliative	radiation	for	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Int	J	Radiat	Oncol	
Biol	Phys	2013;85:747-753.	ReferencesGeneral Dose Guidelines: (RT in conventional fraction sizes) (continued)
• PC-ALCL: 
RT for curative treatment: 24–30 Gy 
Doses as low as 6 Gy are used at some Member Institutions, but data are limited regarding response and duration.
Palliative RT: 2 Gy x 2 or 4 Gy x 1
• SPTCL
RT for curative treatment: 36-45 GyPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCLYM-B  
1 OF 2PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR ANALYSIS IN PRIMARY CUTANEOUS LYMPHOMASa 
• Genetic testing, including high-throughput sequencing (HTS), array-based comparative genomic hybridization (CGH), next-generation 
sequencing (NGS), karyotype, or FISH to detect somatic mutations or genetic abnormalities are often informative and in some cases essential 
for an accurate and precise diagnostic and prognostic assessment of primary cutaneous lymphomas (PCL). 
T-Cell Antigen Receptor (TCR) Gene Rearrangements
• TCR gene rearrangement testing is recommended to support a diagnosis of PCL. 
• Diseases: 
MF/SS; primary cutaneous CD30+ T-cell LPDs
• Description: 
TCR gene rearrangement is indicative of T-cell clonal expansion. The test targets the gamma and/or beta TCR genes using PCR methods 
with capillary or gel electrophoresis detection methods. Alternatively, HTS methods are increasingly utilized. HTS methods are more 
sensitive, precise, and capable of providing a unique sequence of the T -cell clone, which allows for comparison and confirmation of 
disease evolution and monitoring during remission. Clonal T-cell expansions can also be detected using V beta families in blood or tissue 
with flow cytometry methods.
• Diagnostic value: 
Clonal TCR gene rearrangements without cytologic histopathologic and immunophenotypic evidence of abnormal T-cell population does 
not constitute a diagnosis of T-cell lymphoma since it can be identified in patients with non-malignant conditions. Conversely, a negative 
result does not exclude the diagnosis of T-cell lymphoma, which occasionally may fail TCR amplification. Nonetheless, it often provides 
essential information and increased precision for many of these complex diagnoses.
• Prognostic value: 
Identification of clonal TCR gene rearrangement has no definitive established prognostic value; however , it could be helpful when used to 
determine clinical staging or assess relapsed or residual disease.
a References	on	PCLYM-B	2	of	2.DUSP22-IRF4  Gene Rearrangement
• Testing for DUSP22  (dual-specificity phosphatase 22) rearrangement is considered useful under certain circumstances for the diagnosis of 
primary cutaneous CD30+ T-cell LPDs.
• Diseases: 
Primary cutaneous CD30+ T-cell LPDs
• Description: 
DUSP22  is a tyrosine/threonine/serine phosphatase that may function as a tumor suppressor gene. DUSP22  inactivation contributes to 
the development of PTCLs. 
• Detection: 
FISH using probes to DUPS22-IRF4  gene region at 6p25.3
• Diagnostic value: 
DUSP22  rearrangement has been described in patients with PC-ALCL and LyP but is not associated with prognostic significance. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCLYM-B  
2 OF 2PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR ANALYSIS IN CUTANEOUS LYMPHOMAS 
REFERENCES
Chiarle	R,	Voena	C,	 Ambrogio	C,	et	al.	 The	anaplastic	lymphoma	kinase	in	the	pathogenesis	of	cancer.	Nat	Rev	Cancer	2008;8:11-23.
De	Schouwer	PJ,	Dyer	MJ,	Brito-Babapulle	VB,	et	al.	 T-cell	prolymphocytic	leukaemia:	antigen	receptor	gene	rearrangement	and	a	novel	mode	of	MTCP1-B1	
activation.	Br	J	Haematol	2000;110:831-838.
Hu	Z,	Medeiros	LJ,	Fang	L,	et	al.	Prognostic	significance	of	cytogenetic	abnormalities	in	 T-cell	prolymphocytic	leukemia.	 Am	J	Hematol	2017;92:441-447.
Karai	LJ,	Kadin	ME,	Hsi	ED,	et	al.	Chromosomal	rearrangements	of	6p25.3	define	a	new	subtype	of	lymphomatoid	papulosis.	 Am	J	Surg	Pathol	2013;37:1173-1181.	
Morris	SW,	Kirstein	MN,	Valentine	MB,	et	al.	Fusion	of	a	kinase	gene,	 ALK,	to	a	nucleolar	protein	gene,	NPM,	in	non-Hodgkin’s	Lymphoma.	Science	1994;263:1281-
1284.
Odejide	O,	Weigert	O,	Lane	 AA,	et	al.	A	targeted	mutational	landscape	of	angioimmunoblastic	 T-cell	lymphoma.	Blood	2014;123:1293-1296.
Onaindia	A,	Montes-Moreno	S,	Rodriguez-Pinilla	SM,	et	al.	Primary	cutaneous	anaplastic	large	cell	lymphomas	with	6p25.3	rearrangement	exhibit	particular	
histological	features.	Histopathology	2015;66:846-855.
Pedersen	MB,	Hamilton-Dutoit	SJ,	Bendix	K,	et	al.	 DUSP22  and TP63 rearrangements predict outcome of ALK-negative anaplastic large cell lymphoma: a Danish 
cohort	study.	Blood	2017;130:554-557.
Wada	DA,	Law	ME,	Hsi	ED,	et	al.	Specificity	of	IRF4	translocations	for	primary	cutaneous	anaplastic	large	cell	lymphoma:	a	multicenter	study	of	204	skin	biopsies.	
Mod	Pathol	2011;24:596-605.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PCLYM-CSUPPORTIVE CARE FOR PATIENTS WITH CUTANEOUS LYMPHOMAS
Viral Reactivation
• CMV Reactivation:
Clinicians must be aware of the high risk of CMV reactivation in patients receiving alemtuzumab (anti-CD52 antibody).
The current recommendations for appropriate screening and management are controversial; some NCCN Member Institutions use 
ganciclovir (PO or IV) preemptively if viremia is present, others only if viral load is rising.
CMV viremia should be measured by quantitative PCR at least every 2–3 weeks.
Consultation with an infectious disease expert may be necessary.
Consider evaluating CD52 expressions before initiating treatment with alemtuzumab-based regimens.
• John Cunningham virus (JCV) Reactivation
Brentuximab vedotin (anti-CD30 antibody-drug conjugate) can cause JCV reactivation and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML).
PML is usually fatal. Clinical indications may include changes in behavior such as confusion, dizziness or loss of balance, difficulty talking 
or walking, and vision problems.
Diagnosis is made by PCR of CSF and in some cases brain biopsy.
There is no known effective treatment.
Anti-infective Prophylaxis
• Recommended during treatment and thereafter (if tolerated) for patients receiving alemtuzumab (anti-CD52 antibody)
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) prophylaxis with acyclovir or equivalent.
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP) prophylaxis with sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim or equivalent.
Consider screening and treatment (if needed) for strongyloidiasis in patients with ATLL.
Consider antifungal prophylaxis.
 ◊Consultation with an infectious disease expert may be necessary. See NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Cancer-Related  
Infections.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
ST-1Classification 
The	International	Consensus	Classification	of	Mature	Lymphoid	Neoplasms:	 A	Report	from	the	Clinical	 Advisory	Committee.	Blood	2022;140:1229-1253.Table 1: Classification of Cutaneous B-Cell Lymphomas
WHO-EORTC classification for
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas (2018)The International Consensus Classification 
(ICC) of Mature Lymphoid Neoplasms (2022)WHO Classification of Hematolymphoid 
Tumors: Lymphoid Neoplasms (5th edition, 
2024)
Cutaneous B-Cell Lymphomas Mature B-cell Neoplasms Mature B-cell Neoplasms
Primary	cutaneous	marginal	zone	lymphomaPrimary	cutaneous	marginal	zone	
lymphoproliferative disorderMarginal zone lymphoma
• Primary	cutaneous	marginal	zone	lymphoma
Primary	cutaneous	follicle	center	lymphoma Primary	cutaneous	follicle	center	lymphomaCutaneous follicle center lymphoma
• Primary	cutaneous	follicle	center	lymphoma
Primary	cutaneous	DLBCL,	leg	type Primary	cutaneous	DLBCL,	leg	type Large	B-cell	lymphomas
• Primary	cutaneous	DLBCL,	leg	type
• Intravascular	large	B-cell	lymphomaIntravascular	large	B-cell	lymphoma	 Intravascular	large	B-cell	lymphoma
EBV+	mucocutaneous	ulcer	(provisional) EBV-positive	mucocutaneous	ulcerLymphoid proliferations and lymphomas 
associated	with	immune	deficiency	and	
dysregulation
• EBV-positive	mucocutaneous	ulcer
With	permission,	WHO	Classification	of	 Tumours	Editorial	Board.	Haematolymphoid	tumours.	(WHO	classification	of	tumours	series,	5th	ed.;	vol.	11).	Lyon	
(France):	International	 Agency	for	Research	on	Cancer;	2024.Willemze	R,	Cerroni	L,	Kempf	W,	et	al.	 The	2018	update	of	the	WHO-EORTC	classification	for	primary	cutaneous	lymphomas.	Blood	2019;133:1703-1714.Table 2: Classification of Cutaneous 
T-Cell Lymphomas (ST-2)PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
ST-2Classification 
Table 2: Classification of Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphomas
WHO-EORTC classification for
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas (2018)The International Consensus Classification 
(ICC) of Mature Lymphoid Neoplasms (2022)WHO Classification of Hematolymphoid 
Tumors: Lymphoid Neoplasms (5th edition, 
2024)
Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphomas Mature T-cell and NK-cell neoplasms Mature T-cell and NK-cell neoplasms
Sézary syndrome Sézary syndrome Sézary syndrome
Primary	cutaneous	 T-cell	lymphoid	proliferations	and	
lymphomas
Mycosis fungoides (MF) Mycosis fungoides Mycosis fungoides
MF Variants
• Folliculotropic MF
• Pagetoid	reticulosis
• Granulomatous slack skinNot included Not included
Primary	cutaneous	CD30-positive	 T-cell	
lymphoproliferative disorders
• Lymphomatoid papulosis 
• Cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphomaPrimary	cutaneous	CD30-positive	 T-cell	
lymphoproliferative disorders
• Lymphomatoid papulosis
• Primary	cutaneous	anaplastic	large	cell	lymphomaPrimary	cutaneous	CD30-positive	 T-cell	
lymphoproliferative disorders:
• Lymphomatoid papulosis
• Primary	cutaneous	anaplastic	large	cell	lymphoma
Subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma Subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma Subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma
Primary	cutaneous	peripheral	 T-cell	lymphoma,	rare	
subtypes
• Primary	cutaneous	CD4+	small/medium	 T-cell	
lymphoproliferative disorder (provisional)Primary	cutaneous	CD4-positive	small	or	medium	
T-cell lymphoproliferative disorderPrimary	cutaneous	CD4-positive	small	or	medium	
T-cell lymphoproliferative disorder
• Primary	cutaneous	gamma-delta	 T-cell	lymphoma Primary	cutaneous	gamma-delta	 T-cell	lymphoma Primary	cutaneous	gamma/delta	 T-cell	lymphoma
• Primary	cutaneous	acral	CD8-positive	 T-cell	
lymphoma (provisional)Primary	cutaneous	acral	CD8-positive	
lymphoproliferative disorderPrimary	cutaneous	acral	CD8-positive	
lymphoproliferative disorder
• Primary	cutaneous	aggressive	epidermotropic	CD8+	
cytotoxic T-cell lymphoma (provisional)Primary	cutaneous	CD8-positive	aggressive	
epidermotropic cytotoxic T-cell lymphomaPrimary	cutaneous	CD8-positive	aggressive	
epidermotropic cytotoxic T-cell lymphoma
• Primary	cutaneous	peripheral	 T-cell	lymphoma,	NOS Not included Primary	cutaneous	peripheral	 T-cell	lymphoma,	NOS
The	International	Consensus	Classification	of	Mature	Lymphoid	Neoplasms:	 A	Report	from	the	Clinical	 Advisory	Committee.	Blood	2022;140:1229-1253.
With	permission,	WHO	Classification	of	 Tumours	Editorial	Board.	Haematolymphoid	tumours.	(WHO	classification	of	tumours	series,	5th	ed.;	vol.	11).	Lyon	(France):	
International	 Agency	for	Research	on	Cancer;	2024.Willemze	R,	Cerroni	L,	Kempf	W,	et	al.	 The	2018	update	of	the	WHO-EORTC	classification	for	primary	cutaneous	lymphomas.	Blood	2019;133:1703-1714.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
ABC activated	B-cell
ALCL anaplastic large cell lymphoma
ANA antinuclear antibody
ASC absolute Sézary cell
ATLL adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma
BSA body surface area 
C/A/P chest/abdomen/pelvis
CBC complete blood count 
CGH comparative genomic hybridization
CMV cytomegalovirus
CNS central nervous system
CR complete response
CSF cerebrospinal	fluid
CTCL cutaneous T-cell lymphoma
CTV clinical target volume 
DLBCL diffuse	large	B-cell	lymphoma
EBER-
ISHEpstein-Barr	encoding	region-in	situ	
hybridization
EBRT external beam radiation therapy 
EBV Epstein-Barr	virus	
ECP extracorporeal photopheresis
FISH fluorescence	in	situ	hybridization	
FL follicular lymphoma
FMF folliculotropic mycosis fungoides
FNA fine-needle	aspiration	GCB germinal	center	B-cell
GTV gross tumor volume
GVHD graft-versus-host disease
HCT hematopoietic cell transplant
HDAC  histone deacetylase
HLH hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis
HSV herpes simplex virus 
HTLV human T-cell lymphotropic virus
HTS high-throughput	sequencing
ICC International Consensus 
Classification
IHC immunohistochemistry 
ISH in situ hybridization 
ISRT involved-site radiation therapy
IVF in vitro fertilization
JC John Cunningham
LCT large-cell transformation
LDH lactate dehydrogenase 
LDi longest diameter
LN lymph node
LPD lymphoproliferative disorder
LyP lymphomatoid papulosisMF mycosis fungoides
MRSA methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus
NB-UVB narrowband	ultraviolet	B
NGS next-generation	sequencing;
NKTL natural killer T-cell lymphoma
NOS not	otherwise	specified	
OARs organs at risk
OS overall survivalABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-1ContinuedPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
PC-ALCL primary cutaneous anaplastic large 
cell lymphoma
PC-BCL primary	cutaneous	B-cell	lymphoma
PC-
DLBCLprimary	cutaneous	 diffuse	large	B-cell	
lymphoma
PC-FCL primary cutaneous follicle center 
lymphoma
PCL primary cutaneous lymphoma
PC-MZL primary cutaneous marginal zone 
lymphoma
PCR polymerase chain reaction
PID primary	immunodeficiency
PJP pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia
PML progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy
PR partial response
PTCL-
NOSperipheral T-cell lymphoma not 
otherwise	specified	
PTV planning target volume
PUVA psoralen plus ultraviolet A
RF rheumatoid factorABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-2SLE systemic lupus erythematosus
SPEP serum protein electrophoresis 
SPTCL subcutaneous panniculitis-like
T-cell lymphoma
SS Sézary syndrome
TCR T-cell antigen receptor 
TSEBT total skin electron beam therapy
UVB ultraviolet	B
 VZV varicella zoster virusPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas
Version 3.2025, 06/10/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CAT-1NCCN Categories of Evidence and Consensus
Category 1 Based	upon	high-level	evidence	(≥1	randomized	phase	3	trials	or	high-quality,	robust	meta-analyses),	there	is	
uniform	NCCN	consensus	(≥85%	support	of	the	Panel)	that	the	intervention	is	appropriate.
Category 2A Based	upon	lower-level	evidence,	there	is	uniform	NCCN	consensus	(≥85%	support	of	the	Panel)	that	the	
intervention is appropriate.
Category 2B Based	upon	lower-level	evidence,	there	is	NCCN	consensus	(≥50%,	but	<85%	support	of	the	Panel)	that	the	
intervention is appropriate.
Category 3 Based	upon	any	level	of	evidence,	there	is	major	NCCN	disagreement	that	the	intervention	is	appropriate.	
All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
NCCN Categories of Preference
Preferred interventionInterventions	that	are	based	on	superior	efficacy,	safety,	and	evidence;	and,	when	appropriate,	
affordability.
Other recommended 
interventionOther	interventions	that	may	be	somewhat	less	efficacious,	more	toxic,	or	based	on	less	mature	data;	
or	significantly	less	affordable	for	similar	outcomes.
Useful in certain 
circumstancesOther	interventions	that	may	be	used	for	selected	patient	populations	(defined	with	recommendation).
All recommendations are considered appropriate.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
 
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  
   NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-1  
 Discussion  
Table of Contents  
Overview ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….  MS-2 
Guidelines Update Methodology ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. MS-2 
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….  MS-2 
Primary Cutaneous B -Cell Lymphomas ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  MS-3 
Mycosis Fungoides and Sézary Syndrome………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  MS-16 
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T- Cell Lymphoproliferative Disorders …………………………………………………………………………………………….  MS-37 
Subcutaneous Panniculitis -Like T -Cell Lymphoma……………………………………………………………………………………………………………... MS-64 
 
 
 
 This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous  Lymphomas . Discussion sections for Primary cutaneous B -cell lymphomas, Mycosis 
fungoides and Sezary syndrome and Primary CD30+ T -cell lymphoproliferative disorders were l ast updated: April 1 , 2025.  Discussion section for Subcutaneous 
panniculitis T -cell lymphoma was added on June 10, 2025.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-2  
 
Overview 
Primary cutaneous lymphomas (PCL) are a heterogenous group of 
extranodal B -cell and T -cell non- Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL) originating in 
and usually confined to the skin.  
In the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results  (SEER) database 
population- based analysis of 3884 cases of PCL diagnosed in the United 
States from 2001 to 2005, the incidence of cutaneous B -cell lymphomas 
(CBCL) and cutaneous T -cell lymphomas (CTCL) accounted for 29% and 
71%, respectively.1 An updated SEER database analysis of data from 18-
population- based registries reported an overall increase in the incidence of 
CTCL between 2000 and 2018 in the United States (14,942 people were 
diagnosed with CTCL during that period), with mycosis fungoi des (MF) 
being the most common diagnosis, followed by primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma (PCALCL).
2 
The World Health Organization- European Organization for Research and 
Treatment of Cancer (WHO -EORTC) classification for cutaneous 
lymphomas was first published in 2005 and was subsequently updated in 
2018.3,4  
The subtypes of PCL that are covered in the NCCN Clinical Practice 
Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®) are listed below:  
• Cutaneous B -Cell Lymphomas  
 Primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma (PCMZL)  
 Primary cutaneous follicle center lymphoma (PCFCL)  
 Primary cutaneous diffuse large B -cell lymphoma, leg type 
(PCDLBCL, leg type)  • Cutaneous T -Cell Lymphomas  
 Mycosis fungoides (MF) and Sézary syndrome (SS)  
 Primary cutaneous CD30+ T- cell lymphoproliferative disorders 
(PCTLD)  
 Subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma  (SPTCL)  
Guidelines Update Methodology  
The complete details of the Development and Update of the NCCN 
Guidelines® are available at www.NCCN.org . 
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage  
NCCN Guidelines strive to use language that advances the goals of equity, inclusion, and representation. NCCN Guidelines endeavor to use 
language that is person- first; not stigmatizing; anti -racist, anti -classist, 
anti-misogynist, anti -ageist, anti -ableist , and anti -weight -biased; and 
inclusive of individuals of all sexual orientations and gender identities. 
NCCN Guidelines incorporate non- gendered language, instead focusing 
on organ -specific recommendations. This language is both more accurate 
and more inc lusive and can help fully address the needs of individuals of 
all sexual orientations and gender identities. NCCN Guidelines will continue to use the terms men, women, female, and male when citing 
statistics, recommendations, or data from organizations or sources that do 
not use inclusive terms. Most studies do not report how sex and gender data are collected and use these terms interchangeably or inconsistently. 
If sources do not differentiate gender from sex assigned at birth or organs 
present, the inform ation is presumed to predominantly represent cisgender 
individuals. NCCN encourages researchers to collect more specific data in future studies and organizations to use more inclusive and accurate 
language in their future analyses.  
  This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous  
Lymphomas . Last updated: April 1 , 2025.   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-3 Primary Cutaneous B- Cell Lymphomas  
Primary cutaneous B -cell lymphomas (PCBCL) account for mainly three 
subtypes: PCMZL, PCFCL, and PCDLBCL, leg type.3,4 PCFCL is the most 
common subtype of CBCL, diagnosed in 57% of patients followed by 
PCMZL (24% –31%) and PCDLBCL, leg type (11% –19%).5,6  
In addition to these three subtypes, PCDLBCL, not otherwise specified 
(PCDLBCL -NOS) with clinicopathologic features intermediate between 
PCFCL and PCDLBCL, leg type has also been described.7,8 In the revised 
2018 WHO -EORTC classification, rare cases that cannot be classified as 
either PCDLBCL, leg type or PCFCL are classified as PCDLBCL- NOS.4  
PCFCL is more prevalent in the scalp, face, and forehead, whereas the 
trunk and extremities are the most common sites for PCMZL.5,6 PCMZL 
and PCFCL are generally indolent or slow growing and both are 
associated with excellent prognosis. PCMZL is now recognized as a 
distinct entity from other mucosa- associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) 
lymphomas in both the International Consensus Classification (ICC) and 
updated WHO classification (WHO5).9,10 In the ICC, PCMZL are defined 
as primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoproliferative disorders because of their indolent disease course.
10   
PCDLBCL, leg type is found most commonly on the leg, although it can 
arise at other sites.5,6 PCDLBCL, leg type is usually aggressive and 
associated with a generally poorer prognosis (mainly due to the higher frequency of extracutaneous relapses).
5,6 In a large Italian series of 467 
patients with PCBCL, extracutaneous involvement was reported in 17% of patients with PCDLBCL, leg type compared to 6% of patients with PCMZL 
and 11% with PCFCL.
5 The 5- year overall survival (OS) rate was 
significantly higher for patients with PCMZL and PCFCL than for patients 
with PCDLBCL, leg type (97%, 96%, and 73%, respectively; P < .0001).5 
In patients with PCMZL and PCFCL, the disease -free survival (DFS) and OS rates were significantly higher for patients with single lesions 
compared with those with regional or disseminated lesions (5 -year DFS, 
62% vs. 44%; 5- year OS, 97% vs. 85%), whereas the difference in 
outcomes between single and regional or disseminated lesions was not 
significant in patients with PCDLBCL, leg type (5- year DFS rate 55% vs. 
44%; 5- year OS rate 79% vs. 67% for single and regional or disseminated 
lesions, respectively).5 In the report from the Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma 
Registry that included 300 patients with PCBCL, the incidence of 
extracutaneous relapse was 47% among patients with PCDLBCL, leg type 
compared to 11% and 9%, respectively, for patients with PCFCL and 
PCMZL.6 The 5 -year disease- specific survival rates in this series were 
95%, 98%, and 50% for PCFCL, PCMZL, and PCDLBCL,  leg type, 
respectively.  
While the diagnosis of PCMZL is generally straightforward and 
reproducible among pathologists, it is more difficult to distinguish between 
PCFCL and PCDLBCL, leg type, partly because the cell size (large vs. 
small) is not a defining feature as it is in nodal B -cell lymphomas. 
Disease -specific characteristics identified by molecular and gene 
expression profiling (GEP) studies (as described below) may be helpful 
to distinguish the subtypes of CBCL.11 
PCMZL can be divided into two subgroups with different prognosis based 
on the immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chain usage, with the vast majority 
being Ig class -switched subtype (IgG/IgG4, IgA, and IgE), CXCR3 and 
IgM negative and a small subset being CXCR3 posi tive and IgM 
positive.12-16 Emerging data suggest that Ig class -switched subtype (IgM -
negative) may be categorized as a clonal chronic lymphoproliferative 
disorder due to its indolent disease course.15,17  
GEP studies have shown that PCFCL is characterized by a germinal 
center B -cell (GCB) phenotype and PCDLBCL, leg type is most commonly 
characterized by activated B -cell (ABC) phenotype.11,18 Thus, a germinal PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-4 (or follicle) center phenotype and large cells in a skin lesion is consistent 
with PCFCL.18 In nodal DLBCL, the GCB phenotype is associated with a 
better prognosis than the ABC phenotype. Immunohistochemical (IHC) and GEP -based algorithms used to classify nodal DLBCL into GCB or 
non-GCB subtypes based on cell of origin (COO) have also shown to be 
useful to distinguish PCFCL from PCDLBCL, leg type.
19-21 However, these 
algorithms may be of limited utility in the differentiation of PC- DLBCL, leg 
type and PCFCL- LC.21 While all cases of PCFCL- LC were uniformly 
classified as GCB phenotype by both IHC and GEP -based algorithms, the 
classification based on COO was heterogenous in patients with PC-DLBCL, leg type.
21 
A high prevalence of gain- of-function mutations in MYD88 (MYD88  L265P) 
and CD79B  genes have been reported in patients with PCDLBCL, leg type 
and are associated with inferior clinical outcomes.11,19,22 GEP studies have 
also identified that PCDLBCL belongs to MCD subtype (co- occurrence of 
MYD88  and CD79B  gain- of function mutations), which is associated with 
ABC phenotype.11 In the aforementioned report that evaluated the 
clinicopathologic and molecular characteristics of patients with PCFCL (25 patients) and PCDLBCL, leg type (32 patients), MYD88  L265P mutation 
was detected only in patients with PCDLBCL, leg type (n = 22; 69%).
19 In 
a retrospective analysis of 61 patients (58 patients with interpretable 
results)  diagnosed with PCDLBCL, leg type, MYD88  L265P mutation was 
detected in 59% of patients.22 It was also associated with shorter 
disease- specific survival and was an independent adverse prognostic 
factor for OS. The 3 -year and 5 -year disease- specific survival rates for 
those with MYD88  L265P mutation were 66% and 60%, respectively, 
compared to 85% and 72%, respectively, for patients with the wild- type 
allele.  
These findings suggest next -generation sequencing (NGS) for MYD88  and 
CD79B  mutations could be helpful to further distinguish PCDLBCL, leg type from PCFCL. IgM expression should be checked if MYD88 mutations 
are identified since IgM -positivity is likely associated with systemic 
involvement.  
Literature Search Criteria  
Prior to the update of this version of the NCCN Guidelines for Primary 
Cutaneous Lymphomas, a literature search was performed to obtain key 
literature on PCBCL  published since the previous Guidelines update, 
using the following search terms: cutaneous diffuse large B -cell 
lymphoma, cutaneous follicle center lymphoma, and cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma. The PubMed database was chosen as it remains the 
most widely used resource for medical literature and indexes 
peer-reviewed biomedical literature.
23  
The search results were narrowed by selecting studies in humans published in English. The data from key PubMed articles deemed as 
relevant to these guidelines have been included in this version of the 
Discussion section. Recommendations for which high -level evidence is 
lacking are based on the Panel’s review of lower -level evidence and 
expe rt opinion.  
The complete details of the Development and Update of the NCCN 
Guidelines are available at www.NCCN.org .  
Diagnosis  
PCMZL are negative for BCL6 and CD10, but are often positive for CD20 and BCL2.
24 PCFCL is consistently BCL6 -positive, whereas CD10 and 
BCL2 are expressed in only a few cases with a follicular growth pattern and the detection of BCL2 rearrangement is generally associated with 
extracutaneous spread.
25-28  
PCDLBCL, leg type tumors express CD20, IRF4/MUM1, FOXP1, and BCL2; many cases express BCL6 and lack expression of CD10.
6,18,19,29- 31 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-5 PCDLBCL, leg type also has a high incidence of MYC rearrangements 
and MYC  rearrangements are not detected in PCFCL.32 In addition, 
PCFCL is usually IRF4/MUM1 -negative while PCDLBCL, leg type is 
usually IRF4/MUM1 -positive and shows strong expression of FOXP1.30,31 
Assessment of FOXP1 expression is helpful to distinguish PCDLBCL, leg 
type from PCFCL since all cases of PCFCL are FOXP1- negative.31 
GEP- based algorithms and modified Hans IHC algorithm including CD10 
and MUM1 have been shown to be useful to distinguish PCFCL from 
PCDLBCL, leg type with optimal diagnostic value without the need for 
BCL-6.19,20  
The diagnosis of PCBCL is established by adequate biopsy of skin 
lesions. Multiple biopsies may be necessary to capture the pathologic 
variability of disease at diagnosis. Incisional, excisional, or punch biopsy is 
preferred to shave biopsy, as PCBCL have primarily dermal infiltrates, 
often deep, which are less well -sampled and can be missed by a shave 
biopsy. Review of the slides by a pathologist with expertise in the diagnosis of PCBCL is recommended. Adequate immunophenotyping of 
the biopsy sample is ess ential for the diagnosis of the exact subtype of 
PCBCL. In addition, immunophenotyping is also useful to rule out cutaneous lymphoid hyperplasia (also known as pseudolymphoma or 
lymphocytoma cutis)
33-35 and in the differential diagnosis of intravascular 
large B -cell lymphoma, which often manifests in skin and is associated 
with a poor prognosis.36  
The initial IHC panel should include CD20, CD3, CD5, CD10, BCL2, 
BCL6, and IRF4/MUM1. Under certain circumstances, evaluation of 
additional IHC markers such as Ki -67, CD43, CD21, CD23, cyclin D1, and 
kappa/lambda as well as MYC (IHC or in situ hybridization [ISH]) may be useful to further establish the lymphoma subtype. Additionally, 
assessment of surface IgM, IgD,  and FOXP1 expression may also be 
helpful in distinguishing PCDLBCL, leg type from PCFCL.
30,31,37 Epstein- Barr virus (EBV) -positive mucocutaneous ulcer is also included as 
a new provisional entity in the updated WHO -EORTC classification and 
Epstein- Barr virus -encoded RNA in situ hybridization  (EBER -ISH) may be 
useful under selected circumstances.4  
The t(14;18) translocation on fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis has been observed only in a small number of cases with PCFCL, 
and the detection of a t(14;18) translocation suggests the presence of 
systemic follicular lymphoma (FL).
27,38 Cytogenetics or FISH to detect 
t(14;18) and FISH to detect BCL2  and BCL6  rearrangements if MYC is 
positive may be useful if systemic FL is suspected. The feasibility of flow 
cytometric immunophenotyping of skin biopsies for the assessment of 
B-cell clonality has been reported, although it has not been widely used.35 
If adequate biopsy material is available, molecular analysis to detect Ig heavy chain gene rearrangement or flow cytometry could be useful to 
determine B -cell clonality.  
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is not a cutaneous lymphoma and finding it in the skin requires a careful search for extracutaneous disease. Clinical 
presentation on the leg and blastoid cytology along with high proliferative 
index and expression of BCL2, IRF4/ MUM1, and IgM would often 
represent MCL with skin involvement.
39 The use of cyclin D1 may be 
useful to differentiate PCMZL (negative for CD5 and cyclin D1) from MCL 
(positive for CD5 and cyclin D1).  
Workup  
The absence of extracutaneous disease at diagnosis is part of the definition of PCBCL. The initial workup is geared toward evaluating extent 
of disease on the skin and seeking extracutaneous disease.
40 
The initial workup should include a complete physical examination, a 
comprehensive skin examination, complete blood count (CBC) with 
differential, comprehensive metabolic panel, and CT and/or PET/CT of the PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-6 chest, abdomen, and pelvis. Peripheral blood flow cytometry will be useful 
in selected cases, if CBC demonstrates lymphocytosis. Imaging is 
effective in identifying systemic involvement in patients with indolent 
CBCL.41 However, it can be omitted if clinically indicated in patients with 
low-grade indolent PCBCL.42 PET/CT may have higher sensitivity in the 
detection of both local and distant metastases than CT.43 However, this is 
not validated and the higher rates of false -positive findings can create 
confusion.  
Bone marrow biopsy is essential for PCDLBCL, leg type, since this is an 
aggressive lymphoma that will probably require systemic treatment; 
however, it appears to have a more limited value in PCFCL and PCMZL, 
and may be considered only in selected patients (eg, for patients with 
unexplained cytopenias or if there is clinical suspicion of more aggressive subtypes).
40,42,44 Senff et al evaluated 275 patients with histologic features 
consistent with marginal zone lymphoma (MZL; n = 82) or follicle center lymphoma (FCL; n = 193) first presenting in the skin.
44 Bone marrow 
involvement was seen in approximately 11% of patients in the FCL group compared with 2% in the MZL group. Among patients with FCL, a positive 
bone marrow was associated with significantly worse prognosis compared 
with those with skin lesions only; the 5- year OS rate was 44% and 84%, 
respectively.
44  
The International Society of Cutaneous Lymphomas (ISCL) and the EORTC Task Force recommend that bone marrow biopsy be obtained for 
cutaneous lymphomas with intermediate to aggressive behaviors and 
should be considered for cutaneous lymphomas with indolent behavior 
and when there is any evidence of extracutaneous disease, as indicated 
by other staging assessments (eg, radiographic evidence or serologic 
clues such as elevated monoclonal or polyclonal Ig).
40 The NCCN Guidelines recommend considering bone marrow biopsy for patients with unexplained cytopenias or if there is clinical suspicion of 
PCDLBCL, leg type.  
Treatment Options  
Involved -site radiation therapy (ISRT) is very effective when used as 
initial therapy as well as for cutaneous relapses in most patients with 
indolent PCBCL.
45-49    
In a retrospective study of 34 patients with PCBCL treated with RT, 
5-year relapse -free survival (RFS) rates ranged from 62% to 73% for 
PCFCL and PCMZL but were only 33% for patients with PCDLBCL, leg 
type.46 The 5 -year OS rate was 100% for PCFCL and PCMZL but was 
67% for PCDLBCL, leg type. Senff et al evaluated the outcome of 153 patients with PCBCL (25 with PCMZL; 101 with PCFCL; and 27 with 
PCDLBCL) who were initially treated with RT with a curative intent.
47 
Overall, 45% of patients had single lesions while localized or 
disseminated lesions were seen in 43% and 12% of patients, 
respectively. Complete response (CR) was obtained in 151 of 153 
patients (99%). Relapse rates for PCMZL, PCFCL, and PCDLBCL, leg 
type were 60%, 29%, and 64%, and the 5- year disease -specific survival 
rates were 95%, 97%, and 59%, respectively. The PCFCLs presenting on the legs also had a higher relapse rate (63%) and a lower 5- year 
disease -specific survival (44%) compared with PCFCLs occ urring at 
other sites (25% and 99%, respectively).
47  
In another retrospective study of 42 patients with biopsy -proven PCFCL 
and PCMZL, RT resulted in CR in all patients.49 The 10- year RFS and 
OS rates were 71% and 87%, respectively, for the entire cohort, after a 
median follow -up of 9.5 years. The 5 -year RFS rate was higher for 
patients with trunk lesions and single lesions (89% and 84%, PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-7 respectively) compared to those with extra -trunk lesions and multiple 
lesions (67% and 57%, respectively ).  
Low-dose ISRT (4 Gy in 2 fractions) is an effective treatment option for 
palliation of symptoms in patients with persistent (initial) lesions or 
recurrent symptomatic disease.50,51  
The results of a more recent retrospective study also showed that RT ≤12 
Gy (4 Gy for relapsed disease) was equally effective as RT ≥ 12 Gy in 
patients with indolent PCBCL (42 patients; 16 patients had PCFCL).52  
ISRT and excision result in higher response rates compared to 
chemotherapy in patients with indolent histologies, but were generally 
used for those with more limited disease; therefore, a direct comparison cannot be made.
5,53- 56 In a large retrospective analysis by the Italian Study 
Group for Cutaneous Lymphomas involving 467 patients with PCBCL, the 
CR rate and the 5 - and 10 -year OS rates for all patients with PCFCL and 
PCMZL who received first -line treatment (RT in 53%, with tot al dose of 
35–45 Gy; chemotherapy in 25%, mainly with CHOP; surgery in 23%) 
were 92% to 95%, 96% to 97%, and 89% to 91%, respectively.5 The 
relapse rate was 44% to 47% and extracutaneous spread was observed in 
6% to 11% of patients. Relapse rate did not vary by the type of initial 
therapy. In patients with PCDLBCL, leg type, the CR rate and 5 - and 
10-year OS rates were 82%, 73%, and 47%, respectively. PCDLBCL, leg 
type was associated with higher relapse rates (55%) and higher 
incidences of extracutaneous spread (17%) —a higher relapse rate was 
confirmed both for patients with single or regional lesions treated with RT 
and for patients with disseminated cutaneous involvement treated with 
chemotherapy.5 In a retrospective analysis of 137 patients with PCMZL, 
initial treatment with surgical excision, RT, or a combination of both 
resulted in a CR rate of 88% (93% for patients with solitary or localized 
disease and 71% for those with multifocal lesions).55 Although there were 
no significant differences in the rate of recurrences between the treatment modalities, surgery alone was associated with more recurrences at the 
initial site.  
Rituximab monotherapy (intravenous57-62 and intralesional63-65) has been 
shown to be effective for PCMZL and PCFCL. Intravenous rituximab may 
be more effective for patients with multiple lesions that cannot be 
managed effectively with local therapy.57-61 In a retrospective analysis of 
15 patients with indolent PCBCL, rituximab resulted in an overall response 
rate (ORR) of 87% (60% CR). The ORR was 100% for patients with 
PCFCL and 60% for patients with PCMZL. With a median follow -up of 36 
months, the median duration of response was 24 months.60 In another 
series of 16 patients with PCBCL, 14 patients (88%) achieved a CR with 
rituximab monotherapy; 35% of these patients with CR eventually relapsed 
between 6 and 37 months.61 In an observational multicenter study 
conducted by the Spanish Working Group on Cutaneous Lymphoma (17 
patients with PCMZL and 18 patients with PCFCL), intralesional rituximab 
induced CR and partial response (PR) in 71% and 23% of patients, 
respectively, with a median DFS of 114 weeks.63 The response rates were 
similar among patients with PCMZL and PCFCL. In a small series that 
evaluated the efficacy of intravenous and intralesional rituximab in 
treatment of patients with PCMZL and PCFCL, although intralesional 
rituximab resulted in response rates similar to that of intravenous 
rituximab, within a 12 -month follow -up period, relapses were more 
frequent among patients treated with intralesional rituximab.66   
In a real -world multicenter, retrospective study of 235 patients with CBCL 
(PCMZL, n = 123; PCFCL, n = 96; PCDLBCL, leg type, n = 16), the 5- year 
PFS rates were 67% and 59% for patients with PCMZL and PCFCL, respectively.
62 Surgical excision (36%) and RT (27%) were the most 
common initial treatment options. Systemic rituximab,  
chemoimmunotherapy, and topical or intralesional steroids were 
administered in 13%, 8%, and 7%, of patients, respectively. Surgical PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-8 excision and RT were more effective than systemic rituximab (CR rates 
were 89% for both surgical excision and RT compared to 59% for systemic 
rituximab). Treatment with RT and topical or intralesional steroids was 
associated with longer median time to next  treatment (445 days and 359 
days, respectively) compared to surgical excision (154 days).  
Several case reports have shown the effectiveness of skin- directed 
therapy (steroids, imiquimod, and nitrogen mustard or bexarotene gel) for 
patients with multifocal lesions.67-71 Interlesional steroids have also been 
used in the management of PCFCL or PCMZL, although only limited data 
are available.53,62,72,73 Systemic therapy (rituximab monotherapy or 
combination chemoimmunotherapy) is often more appropriate for those with generalized disease (skin only; T3) in patients with PCFCL or 
PCMZL.
57-61,67,74 -76 
Because there are no data from randomized clinical trials, the treatment recommendations included in the NCCN Guidelines are derived from the 
management practices of patients with PCBCL at NCCN Member 
Institutions based on the limited data from retrospecti ve analyses and 
studies involving a small cohort of patients.  
Primary Cutaneous Marginal Zone Lymphoma and Primary 
Cutaneous Follicle Center Cell Lymphoma  
While PCMZL and PCFCL respond to initial therapy, disease relapse is 
common in the majority of patients with regional or generalized disease, 
regardless of type of initial treatment. However, relapses are generally 
confined to the skin in which case surviv al does not appear to be affected. 
In a retrospective analysis that assessed the efficacy of various treatment modalities (55 patients; majority of patients had indolent PCBCL; 25 
patients with PCMZL and 24 patients with PCFCL), the type of treatment 
modal ity (skin -directed vs. definitive RT with or without systemic therapy) 
did not affect the time to first recurrence among patients with T1 and 
T2/T3 lesions.
77 The rates of recurrence were higher for T2/T3 lesions compared to T1 lesions (58% and 31%, respectively). The time to first 
recurrence for T1 lesions was 33% and 29%, respectively, for patients with 
PCMZL and PCFCL; however, the difference was not significant. Among 
patients with T2/T3 lesions, there was a non -significant trend toward 
higher rate of recurrence for PCMZL than PCFCL (73% and 38%, respectively).  
Additional imaging studies during the course of treatment are not needed 
after negative initial staging for systemic involvement, and clinical 
follow- up without routine imaging may be appropriate for patients with 
PCMZL.
41 PET/CT (preferred) or CT with contrast may be repeated at the 
end of treatment for assessment of response and can be repeated if there 
is clinical suspicion of progressive disease.  
Solitary or Regional Lesions (T1 –T2)  
Local ISRT (24– 30 Gy) is a preferred initial treatment option. Excision or 
skin-directed therapy or intralesional steroids may be used for selected 
patients. Observation is an option when RT or excision is neither desired nor feasible (eg, lesions on the s calp where hair loss is a major concern).  
Observation is also recommended for patients with disease responding to 
initial therapy, and those with refractory disease should be treated as 
described for generalized disease below.  
Low-dose RT (4 Gy) may be adequate for relapsed or refractory 
disease.
50-52 Patients with regional relapse should be treated with an 
alternate initial treatment option and those with generalized disease 
relapse confined to the skin should receive treatment options 
recommended for generalized disease at presentation.  
Patients with extracutaneous relapse or those with cutaneous relapse that 
is not responding to any of the initial treatment options should be treated PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-9 according to the FL or nodal MZL as outlined in the NCCN Guidelines for 
B-Cell Lymphomas.  
Generalized Disease (skin only; T3)  
Skin-directed therapy, local ISRT (24– 30 Gy) for palliation of symptoms, 
intralesional steroids, or rituximab are included as options for initial 
treatment. Observation is appropriate in asymptomatic patients. In patients 
with very extensive or symptomatic  disease, other combination 
chemotherapy regimens recommended for FL or nodal MZL may be 
used.74-76 
Observation is recommended for patients with disease responding to initial 
therapy, and those with refractory disease should be treated with an 
alternate initial treatment option.  
Patients with relapse localized to skin should be treated with an alternate 
initial treatment option. Patients with extracutaneous relapse or those with 
cutaneous relapse that is not responding to any of the initial treatment 
options should be treated as described for extracutaneous disease.  
Extracutaneous Disease  
Extracutaneous disease should be managed according to FL or nodal 
MZL as outlined in the NCCN Guidelines for B -Cell Lymphomas.74-76 
Primary Cutaneous Diffuse Large B -Cell Lymphoma, Leg Type  
RT alone is less effective in patients with PCDLBCL, leg type. While these lesions do respond to RT, remissions are often short -lived and higher 
rates of dissemination to extracutaneous sites may occur.  
The potential utility of chemoimmunotherapy for the treatment of 
PCDLBCL, leg type has been described only in retrospective analyses and 
case reports.
78-83 In a retrospective multicenter study from the French 
Study Group on 60 patients with PCDLBCL, leg type, patients treated with anthracycline- based chemoimmunotherapy had a more favorable 
short -term outcome, although no particular therapy (RT or multiagent 
chemotherapy with or without rituximab) was significantly associated with 
improved survival outcomes.78 Among 12 patients treated with 
anthracycline- based chemoimmunotherapy, the CR rate was 92% 
compared to 62% for patients who received other therapies. The 2- year 
OS rate for these two groups was 81% and 59%, respectively.  
Multiagent chemoimmunotherapy regimens have been associated with 
excellent outcomes.81-83 In a report from the French Study Group (115 
patients), the 3-  and 5 -year survival rates were 80% and 74%, 
respectively, for patients who received multiagent chemoimmunotherapy 
compared to 48% and 38%, respectively, for patients who received 
less-intensiv e therapies.81 In a more recent retrospective analysis 
involving 28 patients with PCDLBCL, leg type treated in a single center, 
R-CHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and 
prednisone) with ISRT resulted in significantly longer median PFS compared t o R-CHOP without ISRT as front -line therapy (58 vs. 14 
months; P = .04).
83  
PCDLBCL, leg type has a poorer prognosis than other types of PCBCL and is generally treated with more aggressive chemoimmunotherapy 
regimens used for systemic DLBCL as outlined in the NCCN Guidelines 
for B -Cell Lymphomas.   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-10 References  
1. Bradford PT, Devesa SS, Anderson WF, Toro JR. Cutaneous 
lymphoma incidence patterns in the United States: a population- based 
study of 3884 cases. Blood 2009;113:5064- 5073. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19279331 . 
2. Cai ZR, Chen ML, Weinstock MA, et al. Incidence Trends of Primary 
Cutaneous T -Cell Lymphoma in the US From 2000 to 2018: A SEER 
Population Data Analysis. JAMA Oncol 2022;8:1690- 1692. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36048455 . 
3. Willemze R, Jaffe ES, Burg G, et al. WHO -EORTC classification for 
cutaneous lymphomas. Blood 2005;105:3768 -3785. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15692063 . 
4. Willemze R, Cerroni L, Kempf W, et al. The 2018 update of the WHO -
EORTC classification for primary cutaneous lymphomas. Blood 
2019;133:1703 -1714. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30635287 . 
5. Zinzani PL, Quaglino P, Pimpinelli N, et al. Prognostic factors in primary 
cutaneous B -cell lymphoma: the Italian Study Group for Cutaneous 
Lymphomas. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:1376 -1382. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16492713 . 
6. Senff NJ, Hoefnagel JJ, Jansen PM, et al. Reclassification of 300 primary cutaneous B -Cell lymphomas according to the new WHO -EORTC 
classification for cutaneous lymphomas: comparison with previous classifications and identification of prognostic markers . J Clin Oncol 
2007;25:1581 -1587. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17353548 . 
7. Lucioni M, Berti E, Arcaini L, et al. Primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma 
other than marginal zone: clinicopathologic analysis of 161 cases: 
Comparison with current classification and definition of prognostic 
markers. Cancer Med 2016;5:2740 -2755. Availabl e at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27665744 . 8. Felcht M, Klemke CD, Nicolay JP, et al. Primary cutaneous diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma, NOS and leg type: Clinical, morphologic and prognostic 
differences. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2019;17:275- 285. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30851152 . 
9. WHO Classification of Tumours Editorial Board. Haematolymphoid 
tumours. (WHO classification of tumours series, 5th ed.; vol. 11). Lyon 
(France): International Agency for Research on Cancer; 2024.  
10. Campo E, Jaffe ES, Cook JR, et al. The International Consensus 
Classification of mature lymphoid neoplasms: A report from the clinical 
advisory committee. Blood 2022;140:1229- 1253. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35653592 . 
11. Zhang Y, LeWitt TM, Louissaint A, Jr., et al. Disease- defining 
molecular features of primary cutaneous B -cell lymphomas: implications 
for classification and treatment. J Invest Dermatol 2023;143:189 -196. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36163302.  
12. van Maldegem F, van Dijk R, Wormhoudt TA, et al. The majority of cutaneous marginal zone B -cell lymphomas expresses class -switched 
immunoglobulins and develops in a T -helper type 2 inflammatory 
environment. Blood 2008;112:3355 -3361. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18687986 . 
13. Edinger JT, Kant JA, Swerdlow SH. Cutaneous marginal zone 
lymphomas have distinctive features and include 2 subsets. Am J Surg 
Pathol 2010;34:1830- 1841. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21107089 . 
14. Kogame T, Takegami T, Sakai TR, et al. Immunohistochemical 
analysis of class -switched subtype of primary cutaneous marginal zone 
lymphoma in terms of inducible skin- associated lymphoid tissue. J Eur 
Acad Dermatol Venereol 2019;33:e401- e403. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31124191 . 
15. Carlsen ED, Swerdlow SH, Cook JR, Gibson SE. class -switched 
primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphomas are frequently IgG4- positive 
and have features distinct from IgM -positive cases. Am J Surg Pathol PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-11 2019;43:1403 -1412. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31464711 . 
16. Beltzung F, Beylot -Barry M, Battistella M, et al. Recurrent primary 
cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma: a comparative study of initial 
tumours, recurrences, and outcomes in 61 patients. Histopathology 2024. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39628350.  
17. Gibson SE, Swerdlow SH. How I diagnose primary cutaneous 
marginal zone lymphoma. Am J Clin Pathol 2020;154:428 -449. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32808967.  
18. Hoefnagel JJ, Dijkman R, Basso K, et al. Distinct types of primary cutaneous large B -cell lymphoma identified by gene expression profiling. 
Blood 2005;105:3671 -3678. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15308563 . 
19. Menguy S, Beylot -Barry M, Parrens M, et al. Primary cutaneous large 
B-cell lymphomas: relevance of the 2017 World Health Organization 
classification: clinicopathological and molecular analyses of 64 cases. Histopathology 2019;74:1067- 1080. Available at : 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30715765 . 
20. Cretella P, Peluso AL, Picariello C, et al. Immunohistochemical algorithms and gene expression profiling in primary cutaneous B -cell 
lymphoma. Pathol Res Pract 2022;231:153804. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35183824 . 
21. Schrader AMR, de Groen RAL, Willemze R, et al. Cell -of-origin 
classification using the Hans and Lymph2Cx algorithms in primary 
cutaneous large B -cell lymphomas. Virchows Arch 2022;480:667- 675. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35028710.  
22. Pham -Ledard A, Beylot -Barry M, Barbe C, et al. High frequency and 
clinical prognostic value of MYD88 L265P mutation in primary cutaneous 
diffuse large B -cell lymphoma, leg- type. JAMA Dermatol 2014;150:1173 -
1179. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25055137 . 23. PubMed Overview. Available at: 
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/ . Accessed February 12, 2025.  
24. Hoefnagel JJ, Vermeer MH, Jansen PM, et al. Bcl -2, Bcl -6 and CD10 
expression in cutaneous B -cell lymphoma: further support for a follicle 
centre cell origin and differential diagnostic significance. Br J Dermatol 
2003;149:1183 -1191. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14674895 . 
25. de Leval L, Harris NL, Longtine J, et al. Cutaneous B -cell lymphomas 
of follicular and marginal zone types: use of Bcl -6, CD10, Bcl -2, and CD21 
in differential diagnosis and classification. Am J Surg Pathol 2001;25:732-741. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11395550 . 
26. Pham -Ledard A, Cowppli -Bony A, Doussau A, et al. Diagnostic and 
prognostic value of BCL2 rearrangement in 53 patients with follicular 
lymphoma presenting as primary skin lesions. Am J Clin Pathol 
2015;143:362 -373. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25696794 . 
27. Servitje O, Climent F, Colomo L, et al. Primary cutaneous vs secondary cutaneous follicular lymphomas: A comparative study focused 
on BCL2, CD10, and t(14;18) expression. J Cutan Pathol 2019;46:182 -
189. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30511443 . 
28. Pileri A, Grandi V, Agostinelli C, et al. BCL -2 expression in primary 
cutaneous follicle center lymphoma is associated with a higher risk of cutaneous relapses: A study of 126 cases. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 
2022;36:e811 -e813. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35648475 . 
29. Kodama K, Massone C, Chott A, et al. Primary cutaneous large B -cell 
lymphomas: clinicopathologic features, classification, and prognostic 
factors in a large series of patients. Blood 2005;106:2491- 2497. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15947086.  
30. Hoefnagel JJ, Mulder MM, Dreef E, et al. Expression of B -cell 
transcription factors in primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma. Mod Pathol PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-12 2006;19:1270 -1276. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16778825 . 
31. Espinet B, Garcia- Herrera A, Gallardo F, et al. FOXP1 molecular 
cytogenetics and protein expression analyses in primary cutaneous large 
B cell lymphoma, leg- type. Histol Histopathol 2011;26:213 -221. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21154235.  
32. Schrader AMR, Jansen PM, Vermeer MH, et al. High incidence and 
clinical significance of MYC rearrangements in primary cutaneous diffuse 
large B -cell lymphoma, leg type. Am J Surg Pathol 2018;42:1488 -1494. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30113335.  
33. Baldassano MF, Bailey EM, Ferry JA, et al. Cutaneous lymphoid 
hyperplasia and cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma: comparison of 
morphologic and immunophenotypic features. Am J Surg Pathol 
1999;23:88 -96. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9888708 . 
34. Leinweber B, Colli C, Chott A, et al. Differential diagnosis of cutaneous infiltrates of B lymphocytes with follicular growth pattern. Am J 
Dermatopathol 2004;26:4- 13. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14726817 . 
35. Schafernak KT, Variakojis D, Goolsby CL, et al. Clonality assessment 
of cutaneous B -cell lymphoid proliferations: a comparison of flow 
cytometry immunophenotyping, molecular studies, and 
immunohistochemistry/in situ hybridization and review of the lite rature. Am 
J Dermatopathol 2014;36:781- 795. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24335516 . 
36. Murase T, Yamaguchi M, Suzuki R, et al. Intravascular large B -cell 
lymphoma (IVLBCL): a clinicopathologic study of 96 cases with special 
reference to the immunophenotypic heterogeneity of CD5. Blood 
2007;109:478 -485. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16985183 . 
37. Koens L, Vermeer MH, Willemze R, Jansen PM. IgM expression on 
paraffin sections distinguishes primary cutaneous large B -cell lymphoma, leg type from primary cutaneous follicle center lymphoma. Am J Surg 
Pathol 2010;34:1043- 1048. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20551823 . 
38. Child FJ, Russell -Jones R, Woolford AJ, et al. Absence of the t(14;18) 
chromosomal translocation in primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma. Br J 
Dermatol 2001;144:735- 744. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11298531 . 
39. Wehkamp U, Pott C, Unterhalt M, et al. Skin involvement of mantle cell 
lymphoma may mimic primary cutaneous diffuse large B -cell lymphoma, 
leg type. Am J Surg Pathol 2015;39:1093 -1101. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26034867 . 
40. Olsen EA, Whittaker S, Willemze R, et al. Primary cutaneous lymphoma: recommendations for clinical trial design and staging update 
from the ISCL, USCLC, and EORTC. Blood 2022;140:419 -437. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34758074.  
41. Kheterpal MK, Dai J, Geller S, et al. Role of imaging in low -grade 
cutaneous B -cell lymphoma presenting in the skin. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2019;81:970 -976. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30703460 . 
42. Vachhani P, Neppalli VT, Cancino CJ, et al. Radiological imaging and 
bone marrow biopsy in staging of cutaneous B -cell lymphoma. Br J 
Haematol 2019;184:674 -676. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29468663 . 
43. Kumar R, Xiu Y, Zhuang HM, Alavi A. 18F- fluorodeoxyglucose-
positron emission tomography in evaluation of primary cutaneous 
lymphoma. Br J Dermatol 2006;155:357 -363. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16882175 . 
44. Senff NJ, Kluin- Nelemans HC, Willemze R. Results of bone marrow 
examination in 275 patients with histological features that suggest an 
indolent type of cutaneous B -cell lymphoma. Br J Haematol 2008;142:52-
56. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18422781 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-13 45. Eich HT, Eich D, Micke O, et al. Long -term efficacy, curative potential, 
and prognostic factors of radiotherapy in primary cutaneous B -cell 
lymphoma. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2003;55:899- 906. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12605967 . 
46. Smith BD, Glusac EJ, McNiff JM, et al. Primary cutaneous B -cell 
lymphoma treated with radiotherapy: a comparison of the European 
Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer and the WHO 
classification systems. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:634- 639. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14966086 . 
47. Senff NJ, Hoefnagel JJ, Neelis KJ, et al. Results of radiotherapy in 153 primary cutaneous B -Cell lymphomas classified according to the WHO -
EORTC classification. Arch Dermatol 2007;143:1520- 1526. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18087001 . 
48. Pedretti S, Urpis M, Leali C, et al. Primary cutaneous non -Hodgkin 
lymphoma: results of a retrospective analysis in the light of the recent 
ILROG guidelines. Tumori 2018;104:394- 400. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28218382 . 
49. De Felice F, Grapulin L, Pieroni A, et al. Radiation therapy in indolent 
primary cutaneous B cell lymphoma: a single institute experience. Ann 
Hematol 2018;97:2411 -2416. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30094511 . 
50. Neelis KJ, Schimmel EC, Vermeer MH, et al. Low -dose palliative 
radiotherapy for cutaneous B - and T -cell lymphomas. Int J Radiat Oncol 
Biol Phys 2009;74:154- 158. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18834672 . 
51. Elsayad K, Guenova E, Assaf C, et al. Radiotherapy in cutaneous 
lymphomas: Recommendations from the EORTC cutaneous lymphoma 
tumour group. Eur J Cancer 2024;212:115064. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39418694 . 
52. Akhtari M, Reddy JP, Pinnix CC, et al. Primary cutaneous B -cell 
lymphoma (non -leg type) has excellent outcomes even after very low dose radiation as single- modality therapy. Leuk Lymphoma 2016;57:34 -38. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25860237.  
53. Senff NJ, Noordijk EM, Kim YH, et al. European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer and International Society for 
Cutaneous Lymphoma consensus recommendations for the management 
of cutaneous B -cell lymphomas. Blood 2008;112:1600- 1609. Avai lable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18567836 . 
54. Pashtan I, Mauch PM, Chen YH, et al. Radiotherapy in the management of localized primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma. Leuk 
Lymphoma 2013;54:726 -730. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22916994 . 
55. Servitje O, Muniesa C, Benavente Y, et al. Primary cutaneous marginal zone B -cell lymphoma: response to treatment and disease -free 
survival in a series of 137 patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 2013;69:357 -365. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23796549.  
56. Olszewska -Szopa M, Sobas M, Laribi K, et al. Primary cutaneous 
indolent B -cell lymphomas -  a retrospective multicenter analysis and a 
review of literature. Acta Oncol 2021;60:1361 -1368. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34346830 . 
57. Heinzerling LM, Urbanek M, Funk JO, et al. Reduction of tumor burden and stabilization of disease by systemic therapy with anti -CD20 antibody 
(rituximab) in patients with primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma. Cancer 
2000;89:1835 -1844. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11042581 . 
58. Heinzerling L, Dummer R, Kempf W, et al. Intralesional therapy with 
anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab in primary cutaneous B -cell 
lymphoma. Arch Dermatol 2000;136:374 -378. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10724200 . 
59. Gellrich S, Muche JM, Wilks A, et al. Systemic eight -cycle anti -CD20 
monoclonal antibody (rituximab) therapy in primary cutaneous B -cell 
lymphomas --an applicational observation. Br J Dermatol 2005;153:167 -
173. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16029344 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-14 60. Morales AV, Advani R, Horwitz SM, et al. Indolent primary cutaneous 
B-cell lymphoma: experience using systemic rituximab. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2008;59:953- 957. Available at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18817999 . 
61. Valencak J, Weihsengruber F, Rappersberger K, et al. Rituximab 
monotherapy for primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma: response and 
follow- up in 16 patients. Ann Oncol 2009;20:326- 330. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18836086 . 
62. Nikolaou V, Koumprentziotis IA, Papadavid E, et al. Clinical features, 
treatment options and outcomes in primary cutaneous B -cell lymphomas: 
a real -world, multicenter, retrospective study. Int J Dermatol 2024. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39526550.  
63. Penate Y, Hernandez -Machin B, Perez -Mendez LI, et al. Intralesional 
rituximab in the treatment of indolent primary cutaneous B -cell 
lymphomas: an epidemiological observational multicentre study. The Spanish Working Group on Cutaneous Lymphoma. Br J Der matol 
2012;167:174 -179. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22356294 . 
64. Vakeva L, Ranki A, Malkonen T. Intralesional rituximab treatment for 
primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma: Nine finnish cases. Acta Derm 
Venereol 2016;96:396- 397. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26525093 . 
65. Eberle FC, Holstein J, Scheu A, et al. Intralesional anti -CD20 antibody 
for low -grade primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma: Adverse reactions 
correlate with favorable clinical outcome. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2017;15:319 -323. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28177583 . 
66. Kerl K, Prins C, Saurat JH, French LE. Intralesional and intravenous treatment of cutaneous B -cell lymphomas with the monoclonal anti -CD20 
antibody rituximab: report and follow -up of eight cases. Br J Dermatol 
2006;155:1197 -1200. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17107389 . 67. Bekkenk MW, Vermeer MH, Geerts ML, et al. Treatment of multifocal 
primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma: a clinical follow- up study of 29 
patients. J Clin Oncol 1999;17:2471 -2478. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10561311 . 
68. Trent JT, Romanelli P, Kerdel FA. Topical targretin and intralesional 
interferon alfa for cutaneous lymphoma of the scalp. Arch Dermatol 
2002;138:1421 -1423. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12437444 . 
69. Bachmeyer C, Orlandini V, Aractingi S. Topical mechlorethamine and 
clobetasol in multifocal primary cutaneous marginal zone- B cell 
lymphoma. Br J Dermatol 2006;154:1207 -1209. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16704661 . 
70. Coors EA, Schuler G, Von Den Driesch P. Topical imiquimod as treatment for different kinds of cutaneous lymphoma. Eur J Dermatol 
2006;16:391 -393. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16935796 . 
71. Stavrakoglou A, Brown VL, Coutts I. Successful treatment of primary 
cutaneous follicle centre lymphoma with topical 5% imiquimod. Br J 
Dermatol 2007;157:620- 622. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17553050 . 
72. Perry A, Vincent BJ, Parker SR. Intralesional corticosteroid therapy for 
primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma. Br J Dermatol 2010;163:223 -225. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20394622.  
73. Kollipara R, Hans A, Hall J, Lisle A. A case report of primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma treated with intralesional steroids. 
Dermatol Online J 2015;21:13030/qt13039s15929m. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26437162 . 
74. Rijlaarsdam JU, Toonstra J, Meijer OW, et al. Treatment of primary 
cutaneous B -cell lymphomas of follicle center cell origin: a clinical follow-
up study of 55 patients treated with radiotherapy or polychemotherapy. J 
Clin Oncol 1996;14:549- 555. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8636770 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-15 75. Brice P, Cazals D, Mounier N, et al. Primary cutaneous large -cell 
lymphoma: analysis of 49 patients included in the LNH87 prospective trial 
of polychemotherapy for high- grade lymphomas. Groupe d'Etude des 
Lymphomes de l'Adulte. Leukemia 1998;12:213 -219. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9519784 . 
76. Wang S, Perlmutter JW, Johnston J, et al. Rituximab treatment of 
primary cutaneous follicle center lymphoma: A retrospective review. J 
Cutan Med Surg 2022;26:604- 612. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36134749 . 
77. Haverkos B, Tyler K, Gru AA, et al. Primary cutaneous B -cell 
lymphoma: management and patterns of recurrence at the multimodality cutaneous lymphoma clinic of the Ohio State University. Oncologist 
2015;20:1161 -1166. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26306900 . 
78. Grange F, Beylot -Barry M, Courville P, et al. Primary cutaneous diffuse 
large B -cell lymphoma, leg type: clinicopathologic features and prognostic 
analysis in 60 cases. Arch Dermatol 2007;143:1144- 1150. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17875875 . 
79. Posada Garcia C, Florez A, Pardavila R, et al. Primary cutaneous 
large B -cell lymphoma, leg type, successfully treated with rituximab plus 
chemotherapy. Eur J Dermatol 2009;19:394- 395. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19467966 . 
80. Grange F, Maubec E, Bagot M, et al. Treatment of cutaneous B -cell 
lymphoma, leg type, with age- adapted combinations of chemotherapies 
and rituximab. Arch Dermatol 2009;145:329- 330. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19289772 . 
81. Grange F, Joly P, Barbe C, et al. Improvement of survival in patients 
with primary cutaneous diffuse large B -cell lymphoma, leg type, in France. 
JAMA Dermatol 2014;150:535- 541. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24647650 . 
82. Kim MJ, Hong ME, Maeng CH, et al. Clinical features and treatment outcomes of primary cutaneous B -cell lymphoma: a single- center analysis in South Korea. Int J Hematol 2015;101:273- 278. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25552248 . 
83. Kraft RM, Ansell SM, Villasboas JC, et al. Outcomes in primary 
cutaneous diffuse large B -cell lymphoma, leg type. Hematol Oncol 
2021;39:658 -663. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34453851 . 
  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-16  
 
Mycosis Fungoides and Sézary Syndrome  
Overview  
Cutaneous T -cell lymphomas (CTCL) are a group of non -Hodgkin 
lymphomas (NHL) that primarily present in the skin, and at times 
progress to involve lymph nodes, blood, and visceral organs.1-3 Mycosis 
fungoides (MF) is the most common subtype and is usually associated 
with an indolent clinical course with intermittent, stable, or slow 
progression of the lesions.4,5  
Extracutaneous involvement (lymph nodes, blood, or less commonly 
other organs) or large cell transformation (LCT) may be seen in 
advanced- stage disease. Sézary syndrome (SS) is a rare erythrodermic, 
leukemic variant characterized by significant blood involvement, 
erythroderma, and often lymphadenopathy .4,6,7 MF is caused by the 
malignant transformation of skin- resident effector memory T cells while SS 
is thought to arise from thymic memory T cells, supporting the contention 
that SS is a process distinct from MF.6 Cases presenting as an overlap of 
these two conditions also exist.  
Folliculotropic MF (FMF), hypopigmented MF, granulomatous slack skin, 
and pagetoid reticulosis are recognized as distinct clinicopathologic 
variants of MF in the World Health Organization- European Organization 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer (WHO -EORT C) classification.2 
FMF and LCT are histologic features that can occur irrespective of stage,  
but the incidence of LCT is higher in patients with advanced- stage 
disease.8-10 Expert dermatopathology and/or hematopathology review is 
needed to confirm the diagnosis. This is especially true for the less 
common variants of the disease, which can be difficult to distinguish from other lymphoproliferative disorders. Genomic studies have demonstrated 
further biologic diversity within MF.4,11  
Due to the rarity and diversity of the condition and the need for an 
individualized approach, the NCCN Guidelines Panel recommends that 
patients diagnosed with MF and SS be treated at specialized centers with 
expertise in the management of this disease.12 
Literature Search Criteria  
Prior to the update of this version of the NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines 
in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®) for Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas, an 
electronic search of the PubMed database was performed to obtain key 
literature on MF and SS published since the previous Guidelines update 
using the following search terms: cutaneous T- cell lymphomas, mycosis 
fungoides, and Sézary syndrome. The PubMed database was chosen as it remains the most widely used resource for medical literature and indexes 
peer-reviewed bi omedical literature.
13  
The search results were narrowed by selecting studies in humans 
published in English. Results were confined to the following article types: 
Clinical Trial, Randomized Controlled Trial; Phase II; Clinical Trial, Phase 
III; Guideline; Meta Analysis; Systemat ic Reviews; and Validation Studies. 
The data from key PubMed articles deemed as relevant to these guidelines have been included in this version of the Discussion section. 
Recommendations for which high- level evidence is lacking are based on 
the Panel’s rev iew of lower -level evidence and expert opinion.  
The complete details of the Development and Update of the NCCN 
Guidelines are available at www.NCCN.org .  
Staging  
The T (skin), N (node), M (visceral), and B (blood involvement) classification and clinical staging developed by the International Society This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous  
Lymphomas . Last updated: April 1 , 2025.   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-17 for Cutaneous Lymphomas (ISCL) and EORTC are outlined on MFSS- 3 
and MFSS- 4.14  
The extent of skin involvement is based on the percentage of body surface 
area (BSA) where the patient’s palm (without digits) is equivalent to 0.5% 
BSA and the palm with all five digits is approximately 1% BSA. In the 
revised staging system, T1 disease (l imited skin involvement) is defined as 
patches, papules, and/or plaques covering <10% BSA. T2 (skin- only 
disease) is defined as patches, papules, and/or plaques covering ≥10% 
BSA. Patch diagnosis is noted as T1a or T2a and plaque diagnosis is noted as T1b or T2b. T3 (tumor -stage disease) is defined by the presence 
of one or more tumors (≥1 cm in diameter with nodular quality). T4 (erythrodermic disease) is defined as confluence of erythema covering 
≥80% BSA. However, this criterion of 80% is subjective and the BSA can 
fluctuate in patients with erythrodermic MF or SS. Thus, other features including keratoderma, ectropion, or leg edema should also be evaluated 
in patients with erythrodermic MF or SS.  
Lymph node biopsy for staging is recommended only for clinically 
abnormal nodes (>1.5 cm in longest diameter). Lymphadenopathy can be 
clinically reactive or dermatopathic; thus, not all enlarged lymph nodes are 
sampled. The designation “Nx” may be used for  abnormal lymph nodes 
without histologic evaluation. The designation “Mx” can be used for presence of abnormal visceral sites without histologic evaluation. Visceral 
disease with the involvement of an organ (eg, spleen, liver) other than the 
skin, nodes, o r blood should be documented using imaging studies.  
Blood involvement is classified into three groups: B0, B1, and B2 based on 
the number of immunophenotypically abnormal T cells in the blood 
(MFSS- 3). Patients with lymphopenia (defined as <1000 absolute 
lymphocytes) may potentially have an underestimation of aberrant lymphocyte burden if assessed only by the absolute number and not also 
by the percentage of immunophenotypically abnormal lymphocytes.
14 B1 or B2 is best characterized by both flow cytometry and the presence of 
clonally related neoplastic T cells as in the skin by TCR gene 
rearrangement analysis. A diagnosis of SS requires B2 level of blood involvement.  
Prognosis  
Age at presentation, overall stage, extent and type of skin involvement (T classification), presence of extracutaneous disease, extent of peripheral 
blood involvement (as defined by flow cytometric measurements of Sézary 
cell counts), elevated lactate dehy drogenase (LDH), and presence of LCT 
have been identified as the most significant factors for disease 
progression and/or survival in patients with MF.
15-21 In a retrospective 
cohort study of 525 patients with MF or SS, patient age, T classification, 
and presence of extracutaneous disease retained independent prognostic 
value in a multivariate analysis.16 The risk of disease progression, 
development of extracutaneous disease, or death due to MF correlated 
with initial T classification. Limited patch or plaque disease has an 
excellent prognosis compared to patients with widespread plaque- type or 
tumor -type skin disease or erythrodermic skin involvement, and 
extracutaneous disease is associated with a poor prognosis.18,19  
LCT is also an independent prognostic factor of shorter overall survival 
(OS) in patients with SS. In an analysis of 117 patients with SS, LCT was 
present in 6% of patients at the time of diagnosis and the median OS 
was 35 months for those with LCT compare d to 80 months for those 
without LCT.22 The presence of ulceration, decreased levels of CD8+ 
cells in peripheral blood, maximum total BSA, and peak LDH were 
predictors for LCT in patients with SS.23  
In the Cutaneous Lymphoma International Consortium (CLIC) study that evaluated the relevance of prognostic markers on OS in 1275 patients with 
advanced- stage MF and SS, stage IV disease, aged 60 years, LCT and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-18 LDH levels were identified as independent prognostic markers that could 
be used together in a prognostic model to identify three risk groups with 
significantly different survival outcomes.21 The 5 -year survival rates were 
68%, 44%, and 28%, respectively, for low -risk, intermediate -risk, and 
high- risk groups.  A prospective international study by CLIC (Prospective 
Cutaneous Lymphoma International Prognostic Index [PROCLIPI] international study) is underway to identify any new prognostic markers 
and validate the refined prognostic index model to optimize the 
risk-stratified approach for the treatment of patients with MF or SS.
24-26   
Diagnosis  
Biopsy of suspicious skin sites along with immunohistochemistry (IHC) of 
biopsy specimen are essential to confirm the diagnosis. Biopsy of 
enlarged lymph nodes (ie, palpable nodes >1.5 cm in diameter and/or firm, 
irregular, clustered, or fixed nodes) or ex tracutaneous sites is 
recommended. Excisional or incisional biopsy is preferred over core needle biopsy. Fine- needle aspiration (FNA) alone is not sufficient for the 
initial diagnosis. Bone marrow biopsy is not required for disease staging but may be helpf ul in those with an unexplained hematologic abnormality.  
MF and SS cells are typically characterized by the following immunophenotype: CD2+, CD3+, CD5+, CD4+, CD8- , CCR4+, 
TCR- beta+, and CD45RO+ and they lack certain T- cell markers, CD7 and 
CD26.
27 However, there are variants of MF that are CD8+ (especially the 
hypopigmented variant) or CD4/CD8 dual negative (in those with LCT and hypopigmented variant), although rare.
28-30 The IHC panel of skin biopsy 
should include CD2, CD3, CD4, CD5, CD7, CD8, CD20, and CD30.  
Additional immunohistochemical markers such as CD25, CD56, TIA1, 
granzyme B, TCR beta, and TCR delta may be useful in selected 
circumstances. The loss of CCR4 expression and emergence of CCR4 
genomic alterations might be associated with resistance to mogamulizumab.31 IHC for CCR4 may be useful to confirm resistance to 
mogamulizumab in patients with progressive or refractory disease while on 
treatment with mogamulizumab.   
Primary cutaneous follicular helper T- cell (TFH) lymphoma is a recently 
described variant of peripheral T -cell lymphoma (PTCL) -not otherwise 
specified. This variant usually presents as a sudden onset of multiple 
plaques and nodules characterized by the expression TFH markers such 
as CXCL13, ICOS, and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD -1).32,33 
Identification of these markers along with other clinical and histopathologic features would be useful to distinguish MFSS from CTCL 
of TFH origin.
34,35  
Molecular analysis to detect clonal TCR gene rearrangements is useful 
to support the diagnosis of MF and SS as well as to distinguish MF from 
inflammatory dermatoses, especially if identical clones are demonstrated 
in more than one skin site.36,37 However, results showing clonal TCR 
gene rearrangements should not be interpreted as the sole and defining test for malignancy since clonal TCR rearrangements can at times be 
seen in non- malignant conditions or may not be demonstrated in all 
cases of MF and SS. TCR rearrangement analysis by high throughput 
sequencing (or next -generation sequencing) is a more sensitive and 
specific test of clonality that can identify the clones by the genetic 
sequence of the TCR.
38,39 Demonstration of identical clones in the skin, 
blood, and/or lymph nodes may be helpful both for diagnosis and 
differentiating MF and SS from benign inflammatory skin diseases.   
Assessment of peripheral blood involvement optimally by  flow cytometry 
is important for staging and is also useful to differentiate CTCL with 
peripheral blood involvement from other forms of leukemic T -cell 
lymphomas (eg, T- cell prolymphocytic leukemia, lymphocytic variant of 
hypereosinophilic syndrome, adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma [ATLL]). 
Flow cytometry allows for the assessment and quantitation of an PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-19 expanded population of CD4+ cells with abnormal immunophenotype 
(CD4+/CD26 - or CD4+/CD7 - or other aberrantly expressed phenotype).40 
Assessment of TRBC1 expression by flow cytometry is also useful for the detection of clonality, especially in cases where CD7 or CD26 are not 
lost.
41-43 Human T -cell lymphotrophic virus ( HTLV) -1 status, assessed 
either by HTLV -1 serology or other methods, may be useful in populations 
at risk to exclude the diagnosis of ATLL (which is usually 
HTLV -1-positive).  
Workup  
The initial workup of patients diagnosed with MF or SS involves a history 
and complete skin examination (assessment of the extent of disease [ie, 
percent of BSA] and type of skin lesion [eg, patch/plaque, tumor, 
erythroderma]), palpation of peripheral lymph nodes, and palpation for 
organomegaly.14 
Laboratory studies should include a complete blood count (CBC), Sézary flow cytometric study (optional for T1 disease), comprehensive metabolic 
panel, and assessment of LDH levels. Analysis of clonal TCR gene 
arrangement of peripheral blood lymphocytes is recommended if blood involvement is suspected.  
CT with contrast of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis or integrated 
whole -body PET/CT scan is recommended for patients with T3 or T4 
disease and should be considered for patients with T2a (patch disease with ≥10% BSA), T2b (widespread plaque- type skin disease), FMF or 
LCT, palpable adenopathy, or abnormal laboratory studies. In an analysis of 375 patients with stage T1/T2 MF enrolled in the PROCLIPI 
international study, the presence of plaques was associated wi th a 
significant increase in the identification of  radiologically enlarged or 
involved lymph nodes in patients with early -stage MF.
25  A CT scan of the neck may be useful in some circumstances. Integrated 
PET/CT was found to be more sensitive for the detection of lymph node 
involvement than CT alone and can help direct biopsies.44 PET scan may 
also be preferred in patients with extranodal disease that may be inadequately imaged by CT. Many skin- directed and systemic therapies 
are contraindicated or are of unknown safety in pregnancy. Therefore, 
pregnancy testing is recommended for individuals of childbearing age.  
Treatment Considerations  
While MF and SS are treatable, they are not curable with conventional 
systemic therapy and the symptoms of the disease have significant 
impact on the quality of life. Patients with MF, particularly those with 
early -stage disease, can have very good prognos is and may live with the 
disease for decades.
18,19  
The optimal treatment for any patient at any given time should be individualized based on overall goals of therapy (improve the disease 
burden and quality of life, attain adequate response to reduce/control 
symptoms, and minimize the risk of progression), route of administration, 
and toxicity profile. Discussions regarding cumulative toxicity of therapy, 
impact of therapy on quality of life, and supportive care for symptom 
control are a key part of the treatment of patients with MF and SS. Most 
of the treat ment options do not result in durable remissions and are often 
given in an ongoing or maintenance fashion to achieve disease control with as little impact on quality of life as possible.  
Patients with a clinical benefit and/or those with disease responding to 
primary treatment can be considered for maintenance or tapering of 
regimens to optimize response duration. Patients with disease that does 
not have adequate response to a systemic therapy regimen are generally 
treated with an alternative regimen recommended for primary treatment 
before moving on to treatment for refractory disease. This supports the 
therapeutic principle of initial treatment with less toxic regimens before PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-20 moving on to treatment options that carry a higher risk of cumulative 
toxicity and/or immunosuppression. Disease relapse (with the same 
stage) after discontinuation of therapy often responds well to retreatment 
with previous therapy.  
Selection of Therapy Based on Clinical and Pathologic Features  
Skin-directed therapies (topical therapy, phototherapy, radiation therapy 
[RT], or total skin electronic beam therapy [ TSEBT]) that can provide 
disease control without major cumulative toxicities are recommended for patients with early -stage disease and limited skin involvement (stage IA or 
stage IB –IIA). Stage IA MF most often can be treated with skin- directed 
therapies ( alone or in combination with other skin -directed therapies). 
While stage IB –IIA patch/plaque disease can be effectively treated 
predominantly with skin -directed therapies, systemic therapy can be 
considered for stage IB –IIA with higher skin disease burden, concerning 
pathologic features (eg, LCT or FMF) ,
 predominantly plaque disease, 
and/or inadequate response to skin- directed therapy.  
Systemic therapy is recommended for advanced- stage disease (≥ stage 
IIB). However, patients with stage IIB disease with single or few T3 lesions 
can be treated with external beam RT (EBRT) with further delay of 
systemic therapy and TSEBT may be used for pa tients with stage IB –IIB 
disease, with excellent response expected. In the PROCLIPI study, the use of systemic therapy was significantly associated with higher clinical 
stage, presence of plaques, and FMF.
26 In a multivariate analysis, the 
presence of plaques and FMF were significantly associated with the use of systemic therapy, and skin- directed therapy was superior to systemic 
therapy even in patients with these disease characteristics. The overall 
respons e rate (ORR) to first -line skin -directed therapy was 73% compared 
to 57% for systemic therapy.  Systemic therapy can be and often is combined with skin -directed 
therapy to maximize clinical responses in the skin compartment and also 
to provide additive efficacy without cumulative toxicities. For those who 
require systemic therapy, due to either advanced -stage disease or 
inadequate disease control on skin -directed therapy, there are many 
options; however, given the rare nature of this disease, only a few have 
been evaluated in randomized studies, as discussed in the section 
Systemic Therapies . Therefor e, a clinical trial should be considered 
when appropriate and available.  
Data from clinical trials that have evaluated various treatment strategies 
(skin -directed therapy, systemic therapy, and combination therapies) are 
discussed below.  
Skin -Directed Therapies  
Topical therapy with corticosteroids, mechlorethamine (nitrogen mustard), 
topical retinoids or topical imiquimod, or RT are indicated for patients with 
localized disease. Phototherapy and TSEBT are indicated for patients with 
widespread skin involvement. Topical retinoids are not recommended for 
generalized skin involvement because these treatments can cause 
substantial irritation.  
Topical Corticosteroids  
Topical corticosteroids are effective for early -stage MF (especially for the 
treatment of patch -stage MF), resulting in measurable improvement in 
BSA involvement and high ORR of 94% (63% complete response [CR]; 
13% partial response [PR]) and 82% (25% CR; 57% PR) in patients with 
stage T1 and T2 disease, respectively.45-47  
Optimal use of topical steroids is often dependent on lesion type and 
disease site. This is best done in consultation with a dermatologist or 
physician with experience in the use of topical steroids. In general, 
high- potency steroids may be less well -tolerated in intertriginous body PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-21 areas or other areas such as the face. Long -term use of a topical steroid 
may lead to skin atrophy or striae formation and the risk becomes greater 
with increased potency of the steroid. Moreover, high- potency steroids 
used on large skin surfaces may lead to systemic absorption.  
Topical Mechlorethamine (nitrogen mustard)  
Topical mechlorethamine has been used for the management of MF for many decades resulting in an ORR of 83% (50% CR). Patients with T1 
disease had a higher ORR (93% vs. 72%), CR rate (65% vs. 34%), longer 
median OS (21 vs. 15 months), and higher 5- year OS r ate (97% vs. 72%) 
than those with T2 disease.
48 The efficacy was similar for aqueous and 
ointment preparations, although the ointment was associated with reduced 
hypersensitivity reactions.   
A topical gel formulation of mechlorethamine was approved by the U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2013 based on the results of a 
multicenter, randomized, phase II trial that demonstrated the non -inferiority 
of topical gel formulation compared to the compounded ointment formulation for the treatment of stage IA or IIA MF in patients (n = 260) 
who had not been treated with topical mechlorethamine within 2 years of 
study enrollment and had not received prior therapy with topical 
mechlorethamine.
49 Response rate based on Composite Assessment of 
Index Lesion Severity was 59% for the topical gel formulation compared to 
48% for the ointment formulation. No study treatment -related serious 
adverse events were reported, and no systemic absorption was dete cted.  
Topical mechlorethamine has no significant systemic absorption, and can be used alone or in combination with other skin directed therapies, in 
particular topical steroids. The use of topical gel formulation of 
mechlorethamine can be complicated by dermatit is and can result in skin 
irritation when used on the face and intertriginous body areas. Initiation at 
less than daily use can be useful to determine tolerability. Topical steroids 
can be considered as needed to alleviate skin reactions from topical gel formulation. If used in combination with phototherapy, topical 
mechlorethamine gel should be applied after exposure to ultraviolet light. 
Topical mechlorethamine is prohibited in the genital skin.  
Topical Retinoids  
Bexarotene gel is the only FDA -approved synthetic topical retinoid for the 
treatment of MF and SS. In the phase I –II trial of 67 patients with 
early -stage MF, the ORR was 63% (21% CR) and the estimated median 
response duration was 99 weeks.50 Response rates were higher among 
the patients who had had no prior therapy compared with those who had 
received prior topical therapies (75% vs. 67%). In the phase III multicenter 
study of 50 patients with early -stage refractory MF, the ORR was 44% (8% 
CR).51  
Tazarotene 0.1% topical gel/cream was reported to be a well -tolerated and 
active adjuvant therapy by clinical and histologic assessments in a small 
series of patients with early patch or plaque MF lesions (stable or 
refractory to therapy).52,53  
Topical Imiquimod  
Imiquimod has also demonstrated activity in a small number of patients 
with early -stage MF refractory to other therapies.54-57 Topical imiquimod 
can be considered (often in consultation with a dermatologist or physician 
with experience in its safety and use) for areas with few 
patches/plaques/small tumors that are recalcitrant to treatment or on 
sun-damaged skin such as forearms,  scalp, and face.  
Topical Carmustine  
Topical carmustine is an effective treatment for patch/plaque early -stage 
MF resulting in high response rates of 92% and 64% in patients with T1 
and T2 disease, respectively, at 36 months.58,59 Topical carmustine is 
included with a category 2B recommendation.   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-22 Topical Calcineurin Inhibitors  
In a phase II multicenter study of 39 patients with stage IA –IIA MF, topical 
pimecrolimus (1% cream) resulted in an ORR of 56% and was well 
tolerated (grade 1 transient mild burning or pruritus was the most common 
adverse event reported in 21% of patients).60 Topical calcineurin inhibitors 
can be considered for  patients with early -stage MF as a steroid -sparing 
treatment for early -stage skin lesions in the perioral and periorbital areas.  
Radiation Therapy  
MF is extremely radiosensitive and unilesional or stage IA MF may be 
treated effectively with local RT alone (without adjuvant therapy), resulting 
in an ORR of 97% to 100%.61,62 Recent studies have shown that 
low-dose involved- field RT (IFRT) also results in high response rates 
without any toxicity in patients with MF.62-64 In a study that included 31 
patients with MF, low -dose RT (4 Gy in 2 fractions) resulted in a CR rate of 
only 30%, whereas increasing the dose to 8 Gy in two fractions yielded a 
CR rate of 92%.63 Patients with disease not responding to low -dose RT 
were re -treated with 20 Gy in eight fractions. In a large series of 58 
patients treated with 8 Gy in a single fraction, the CR rate was 94% for 
individual lesions after a median follow -up of 41 months.64  
Optimal management of individual plaque and tumor lesions is with EBRT 
(8–12 Gy, 8 Gy may be given in a single- fraction; 24– 30 Gy is 
recommended for more durable duration of response or for unilesional presentation).
62,64,65  
Total Skin Electron Beam Therapy    
TSEBT (conventional dose [30–36 Gy] or low dose [<30 Gy])  either alone 
or in combination with adjuvant therapy has been shown to be effective for the treatment of early -stage MF.
66-69 TSEBT at a conventional dose of ≥30 
Gy was associated with a non- significant trend towards better clinical 
benefit and was also associated with better outcomes in patients with T2 
disease compared to those with T3 disease.68,69 In a retrospective study that evaluated low- dose TSEBT in 102 patients with T2 to T4 disease 
(excluding those with extracutaneous disease), TSEBT doses of 10 Gy to <20 Gy and 20 Gy to <30 Gy resulted in ORRs of 98% and 97%, 
respectively, which were comparable to the ORRs achieved with 
standard -dose TSEBT (≥30 Gy).
67 The OS and progression- free survival 
(PFS) rates were not significantly different by dose groups and were comparable to that of standard- dose TSEBT (≥30 Gy).  
Lower -dose TSEBT (10– 12 Gy over a period of 2 –3 weeks) is shown to be 
sufficiently active and may also be associated with fewer short -term 
complications and better ability to re- treat progressive disease (PD) or 
cutaneous relapses.70-75 A pooled analysis of three phase II clinical trials 
that evaluated low- dose TSEBT (12 Gy;  1 Gy per fraction over 3 weeks) in 
33 patients with MF reported an ORR of 88% (including 9 patients with a CR).
71 The median time to response and median duration of clinical 
benefit were 8 weeks and 71 weeks. In a cohort of 103 patients with MF treated with low -dose TSEBT (12 Gy in 8 fractions for 2  weeks; the 
majority of patients had stage IB or IIB disease), after a median follow -up 
of 21 months, the ORR was 87% (18% CR and 69% PR) and the median 
PFS was 13 months.
74 The median PFS was significantly longer for 
patients with stage IB disease (27 months) compared to 11 months and 10 months, respectively, for those with stage IIB or stage III disease. 
Low-dose TSEBT (12 Gy in 6– 7 fractions) was also associated with 
favor able outcomes and significantly fewer grade 2 acute toxicities 
compared with conventional -dose TSEBT (30 Gy).
73,76,77 Further studies 
are warranted to confirm these findings and the use of low -dose TSEBT in 
combined modality regimens.  
The recommended dose range for TSEBT is 12 to 36 Gy (generally 4– 6 
Gy per week). Lower total dose is associated with fewer short -term 
complications and better ability for the retreatment of relapsed disease. It 
is common practice to follow TSEBT with systemic therapies such as PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-23 interferon (IFN) or bexarotene to maintain response, for patients with 
stage IB –IIA disease with higher skin disease burden. Adjuvant systemic 
therapy can be considered to improve response rate and PFS in patients with stage IIB (tumor stage) disease recei ving TSEBT.
78,79  
TSEBT may not be well tolerated in patients with erythrodermic disease 
and should be used with caution. In these patients, TSEBT may be used 
with lower doses and slower fractionation. Antibiotic therapy should be 
considered since patients with erythrodermi c disease are at increased risk 
of developing secondary infections.  
Phototherapy  
Ultraviolet B (UVB including narrowband -UVB)80-84 and psoralen plus 
ultraviolet A1 (PUVA/UVA -1)85-88 are effective treatment options for 
patients with early -stage MF. Narrowband UVB is the most common 
phototherapy approach and less skin damaging than PUVA/UVA -1. While 
some retrospective studies have reported that PUVA results in better responses and improved disease -free survival (DFS),
89-91 others have 
reported that UVB is as effective as PUVA for the treatment of early -stage MF.
92,93 However, these modalities have not been compared 
in randomized clinical trials.  
PUVA may be associated with a small increase in the risk of developing 
basal cell carcinoma (BCC), while there was no significant association 
between the use of narrowband UVB and the risk of developing BCC, 
squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), or melanoma.94 More recent reports also 
confirmed that the use of UV radiation (including UVA and narrowband 
UVB) was not associated with an increased risk of developing BCC, SCC, 
or melanoma except in patients receiving immunosuppressive 
therapy.95,96 It may be more beneficial to start with narrowband UVB than 
PUVA in patients with early patch- stage or thin- plaque disease, since 
narrowband UVB has less skin toxicity than broadband UVB and 
PUVA.94,97,98  Phototherapy should be used with caution in patients with a history of immunosuppressive medication due to the increased risk of UV 
radiation- associated skin malignancies in this patient population. The risk 
and benefits of phototherapy should be considere d in patients with a 
history of BCC, SCC, or melanoma. There are limited safety data for the 
use of phototherapy in combination with vorinostat or romidepsin. Patients 
on long- term phototherapy should be carefully monitored for the 
development of actinic k eratoses, BCC, SCC, or melanoma. The general 
principles and dosing guidelines for phototherapy are outlined in the 
Principles of Phototherapy  section of the guidelines.  
Systemic Therapies  
The selection of systemic therapy regimens is dependent on clinical (eg, extent of patch/plaques; disease burden profile in the skin, lymph nodes, 
and blood; prior therapies; and comorbidities) and pathologic features (eg, 
LCT or FMF) and IHC data (eg, CD30 positivity).
99 In general, systemic 
therapy regimens that can be tolerated for longer durations of therapy with 
lower rates of cumulative toxicity, less immunosuppression, and/or higher 
efficacy are used in earlier lines of therapy. Regimens with lower 
side-effect profi les and an absence of cumulative toxicity are often given in 
an ongoing or maintenance fashion to improve and maintain disease control and quality of life. In patients requiring chemotherapy, single 
agents are preferred over combination chemotherapy, due t o the higher 
toxicity profiles associated with multiagent regimens and the short -lived 
responses seen with time- limited combination chemotherapy.  
Brentuximab vedotin, bexarotene, histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors (vorinostat and romidepsin), methotrexate, pralatrexate, mogamulizumab, alemtuzumab, and pembrolizumab are effective systemic therapy options 
for patients with advanced MF and SS. Bexar otene, brentuximab vedotin, 
mogamulizumab, vorinostat, romidepsin and denileukin diftitox are 
approved by the FDA for the treatment of MF and SS. The efficacy of PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-24 brentuximab vedotin and mogamulizumab compared to standard therapy 
has been demonstrated in phase III randomized trials (ALCANZA and 
MAVORIC, respectively).100-102 The safety and efficacy of reformulated 
version of denileukin diftitox was demonstrated in study 302.103 
Bexarotene,104,105 vorinostat,106-108 romidepsin,109- 111 and other systemic 
therapies such as pralatrexate,112-114 alemtuzumab,115- 120 and 
pembrolizumab121 have been evaluated only in phase II studies.  
IFNs (alfa and gamma) and methotrexate also offer clinical benefit but 
have not been evaluated in phase II studies in the era of modern staging 
of MF and SS.122-125 IFN alfa is no longer commercially available and 
peginterferon alfa -2a may be substituted for other IFN preparations.126-131  
Extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) is an immunomodulatory therapy in 
which patient’s leukocytes are removed by leukapheresis, treated 
extracorporeally with 8- methoxypsoralen and UVA, and then returned to 
the patient.132-134 ECP may be a more appropriate systemic therapy for 
patients with some level of blood involvement (B1 or B2).  
Gemcitabine135- 142 and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin142- 147 also have 
substantial activity in patients with advanced MF and SS. Multiagent 
chemotherapy regimens used for the treatment of systemic PTCLs have 
activity but are associated with greater toxicity and a potentially higher risk 
of death when used in earlier lines of treatment.148,149 Therefore, 
multiagent chemotherapy regimens are generally reserved only for 
refractory disease to multiple prior therapies or bulky lymph node or solid 
organ disease, and/or as a bridge to allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplant (HCT).  
Data supporting the use of some of these agents in patients with MF and 
SS are discussed below. The data for systemic therapy agents, 
particularly those studied in larger prospective phase II and III studies, are 
also summarized in Table 1.  Systemic Retinoids 
Bexarotene, an oral retinoid, can have prolonged disease control without 
cumulative toxicity and is often considered for patients with higher skin 
burden with plaque disease.104,105 In phase II –III studies, oral bexarotene 
(≥300 mg/m2) was well tolerated, resulting in an ORR of 45% to 67% in 
patients with early -stage and advanced- stage disease.104,105 Results from 
a retrospective study of the Spanish Working Group of Cutaneous Lymphomas (174 patients with MF and 42 patients with SS) also 
demonstrated the long- term safety and efficacy of bexarotene (ORR of 
70%; 26% CR).
150 Hypertriglyceridemia (79%), hypercholesterolemia 
(71%), and hypothyroidism (52%) were the most common treatment -
related adverse events.  
Given the favorable tolerability profile without significant cumulative toxicity, bexarotene should be considered for patients with early -stage MF 
who have insufficient disease control with skin- directed therapy. It is 
important to note that bexarotene is associated with hypertriglyceridemia 
and central hypothyroidism, which necessitates laboratory monitoring for 
triglycerides, and free thyroxine (T4), often requiring additional 
management.  
Bexarotene is also used in combination with phototherapy or ECP for early -stage disease with inadequate response to single- agent therapy and  
in patients with advanced- stage disease.
151-154 
Retinoic -acid receptor (RAR) agonists such as acitretin and isotretinoin 
(13-cis-retinoic acid) have also been shown to be effective for the 
treatment of early -stage MF.155-157 In a small cohort of 35 patients with 
early -stage MF, acitretin and isotretinoin resulted in ORRs of 64% and 
80%, respectively (although the CR rates were low at 4% and 8%, respectively).
156  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-25 Brentuximab Vedotin  
In the ALCANZA trial, brentuximab vedotin, an anti -CD30 antibody drug 
conjugate, was more effective than methotrexate or bexarotene in patients 
with previously treated MF (≥ stage IB).100 The final analysis confirmed 
that brentuximab vedotin resulted in significantly improved ORR lasting for 
at least 4 months (ORR4; 55% vs.13%), median PFS (17 vs. 4 months), 
and patient -reported symptom burden compared to methotrexate or 
bexarotene in patients with CD30- positive MF.101 Peripheral neuropathy 
was the most common adverse event reported in 44 (69%) patients. At the 
median follow -up of 46 months, 86% (38 of 44) of patients had complete 
resolution or improvement to grades 1 and 2.  
In the ALCANZA trial, CD30 positivity was defined as CD30 expression in 
≥10% of total lymphoid cells in at least one skin biopsy (43% of patients 
had at least 1 sample with CD30 <10%).100 The results of an exploratory 
analysis showed that brentuximab vedotin resulted in higher ORR4 and improved PFS in patients with ≥10% CD30 expression, regardless of LCT 
status.
158 The ORR4 (41% vs. 10% for <10% CD30 min expression; 57% vs. 
10% for ≥10% CD30 min expression) and median PFS (17 vs. 2 months for 
<10% CD30 min expression; 16 vs. 4 months for ≥10% CD30 min expression) 
were significantly higher for brentuximab vedotin compared to vorinostat 
across all CD30 expression levels.  
In other phase II studies, clinical responses with brentuximab vedotin were observed across all CD30 expression levels (including negligible CD30 
expression) and in patients with high blood Sézary cell count.
159,160 
Lesions with <5% CD30 expression had a lower likelihood of global 
response than those with ≥5% CD30 expression ( P < .005), but responses 
are still seen in those with CD30 positivity of ≥1% or non -detectable CD30 
by IHC using light microscopy.159,160 While responses were observed in 
patients with very low or absent CD30 expression, the likelihood and/or depth of response may be lower in these situations and further studies are 
needed to define the activity of brentuximab in this setting. Real world cohort studies have also reported favorable outcomes with brentuximab 
vedotin in patients with previously treated MF and SS and variable CD30 
positivity.
161,162  
Brentuximab vedotin is a more effective treatment option than 
methotrexate or bexarotene for patients with CD30- positive MF but carries 
greater risk, particularly a cumulative risk of peripheral neuropathy.163 
Patients with SS were excluded from the ALCANZA  trial and the efficacy 
of brentuximab vedotin in patients with SS in the setting of refractory disease or low CD30 skin expression has only been demonstrated in a 
small case series of 13 patients.
164 
Mogamulizumab  
In the MAVORIC trial, mogamulizumab, a humanized anti -CCR4 
monoclonal antibody, was more effective than vorinostat in patients with previously treated MF (≥ stage IB) and SS. Mogamulizumab resulted in 
significantly higher ORR (28% vs. 5%) and median PFS (8  vs. 3 months) 
compared with vorinostat and the ORR was higher in patients with SS 
than those with MF (37% vs. 21%).
102 Patients with LCT at study entry 
were excluded from this trial. In a post hoc  analysis, the number of prior 
therapies did not impact the ORR, PFS, and duration of response 
observed with mogamulizumab.165 Among the 186 patients randomly 
assigned to vorinostat, 136 patients (109 patients with disease 
progression and 27 patients after intolerable toxicity) crossed over to 
mogamulizumab. The ORR was 31% for the 133 patients who crossed 
over from vorinostat to mogamulizumab and subsequently received 
mogamulizumab. The most common adverse events associated with 
mogamulizumab were mostly grade 1– 2 and manageable (infusion- related 
reactions [37%], skin eruptions [25%], and diarrhea [14%]). Pyrexia (4%) and celluli tis (3%) were the most common grade 3 adverse events in the 
mogamulizumab group.  Patients with the greatest symptom burden and 
functional impairment derived the most benefit from mogamulizumab in 
terms of quality of life.
166 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-26 The clinical benefit with mogamulizumab was higher in patients with stage 
III or stage IV disease, especially in patients with B1 and B2 blood 
involvement.102,167,168 In the post -hoc subgroup analysis by clinical stage, 
the ORRs for mogamulizumab were 23% and 36%, respectively, for 
patients with stage III or stage IV disease compared to 19% and 16%, 
respectively, for patients with stage IB/IIA disease or stage IIB disease.102 
Mogamulizumab also resulted in higher ORR than vorinostat across all 
disease compartments. The compartment -specific ORRs for 
mogamulizumab were 42%, 68%, and 17%, respectively, for skin, blood 
involvement, and lymph nodes. The corresponding ORRs for vorinostat 
were 16%, 19%, and 4%, respectively. The overall disease control rate 
was 79% (76% for MF and 82% for SS) and improved with long -term 
exposure to mogamulizumab.169 This trial, however, was not powered to 
detect OS differences between the two groups within the defined follow -up 
period.  
The post -hoc analyses that evaluated the efficacy of mogamulizumab 
based on blood tumor burden showed that blood involvement was 
associated with improved ORRs, PFS, and time to next treatment (TTNT) 
for patients treated with mogamulizumab.167,168 The ORRs were 26% and 
37%, respectively, for patients with B1 and B2 blood involvement 
compared to 16% for those with B0 blood involvement.167 The median 
PFS was 11 months and 8 months, respectively, for patients with B2 and B1 blood involvement compared to 5 months for those with B0 blood 
involvement.
168 The TTNT was 20 months for those with B2 blood 
involvement compared to 12 months and 7 months, respectively, for 
those with B1 and B0 blood involvement.168 Mogamulizumab also was 
associated with sustained reductions seen in CD4+  CD26 - cell counts 
and CD4:CD8 ratios in patients for all B classes of blood involvement.  
A drug- induced skin eruption that has variable clinical and pathologic 
features (and can mimic CTCL) was the most frequent adverse event leading to treatment discontinuation in the MAVORIC trial.102,170- 173 
Mogamulizumab -associated skin rash has also been identified as a 
potential marker for tumor response.174 Skin biopsy (with adequate 
immunohistochemical stains and clonality assessment) is recommended 
to rule out disease progression in patients experiencing drug- induced 
skin eruptions or mogamulizumab -associated skin rash.172,175,176   
Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors 
Vorinostat was the first HDAC inhibitor to be approved for the treatment of 
MF and SS. In the initial phase IIB registration study, vorinostat resulted in 
an ORR of 30%.107 A post-hoc subset analysis of patients who 
experienced clinical benefit with ≥2 years of vorinostat therapy in the 
phase IIB study provided some evidence for the long- term safety and 
efficacy of vorinostat in patients with heavily pretreated MF and SS.108 
While cumulative toxicities were rare with vorinostat, patients need to be 
monitored for gastrointestinal toxicity, including nausea, diarrhea, and 
resultant dehydration, which could be more detrimental for older patients.  
Romidepsin has demonstrated clinical activity across all disease compartments.
109-111 The median duration of response is 13 to 15 months 
for patients with disease responding to romidepsin.109,110 Importantly, 
romidepsin was associated with a high rate of reduction in pruritus score 
irrespective of clinical objective response. The compartment -specific 
ORRs were 40%, 35%, 32%, and 27%, respectively, for skin involvement, 
erythroderma, blood involvem ent, and lymphadenopathy.111 It is important 
to initially monitor for QTc prolongation when administering romidepsin, 
particularly with the concomitant use of antiemetics that also prolong QTc. 
Romidepsin is included as a preferred regimen for patients with SS with 
high Sézary cell burden.  
Denileukin Diftitox  
Denileukin diftitox (a recombinant human interleukin- 2 diphtheria toxin 
fusion protein), initially approved for relapsed/refractory CTCL,177,178 was PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-27 withdrawn from the market in 2014 due to manufacturing difficulties. A 
reformulated version of denileukin diftitox was evaluated in Study 302 for 
patients with relapsed or refractory MF and SS.103 LCT-MF was not an 
exclusion criteria but no patients with LCT- MF were enrolled in the study. 
CD25 -positiity was defined as detectable CD25 in ≥20% of total lymphoid 
cells in biopsy specimen by IHC.  
The primary efficacy analysis included 69 patients with MF (stage IA –
stage IIIB). The majority of the patients had stage IB –IIA (n = 25) or stage 
IIB (n = 24) disease. Denileukin diftitox resulted  in an ORR of 36% (as 
assessed by an independent review committee) and the median duration 
of response was 9 months.103 The ORR were higher for stage IIB disease 
(46%) compared to those with stage IA –IIA disease (37%) or stage III 
disease (20%). There was no correlation between the CD25 expression 
and the efficacy of denileukin diftitox. Reduction in skin disease burden 
was observed across all stages (84%; 54 out of the 64 evaluable patients). 
Treatment -related adverse events of special interest including capillary 
leak syndrome (CLS; typically occurring during the first 2 cycles; 20%; 
grade ≥3, 6%), infusion- related reacti ons (74%), hypersensitivity (68%) 
and hepatotoxicity (36%) were mostly grade 1– 2, with no evidence of 
cumulative toxicity.  
Denileukin diftitox is included as a preferred systemic therapy option for 
stage IIB (generalized tumor disease) and as an option under useful in 
certain circumstances for stage IB –IIA, stage IIB (limited) and stage III 
disease.  
Alemtuzumab  
Alemtuzumab (a humanized anti -CD52 monoclonal antibody) has 
significant clinical activity in patients with previously treated advanced MF 
and SS.115-120 The ORR with alemtuzumab (30 mg IV) was higher in 
patients with erythroderma or SS than those with advanced MF; however, it was associated with myelotoxicities and infectious complications.
116,120 Reduced- dose subcutaneous alemtuzumab (3– 15 mg per administration) 
given for a shorter duration was equally effective with lower incidence of 
infectious complications in patients with SS.117 While alemtuzumab is no 
longer commercially available, it may be obtained for compassionate use 
for patients with CTCL and other hematologic malignancies.   
Pembrolizumab  
In a phase II trial, pembrolizumab (an immune checkpoint inhibitor) 
resulted in durable responses in both MF and SS with an ORR of 38% and 
median duration of response not reached at a median follow -up of 58 
weeks.121 Pembrolizumab was associated with a skin flare reaction, 
occurring exclusively in patients with SS; the flare reaction correlated with 
high PD -1 expression on Sezary cells, and it should be distinguished from 
disease progression.  
Pralatrexat e 
Pralatrexate is a folate analog with demonstrated activity in patients with 
heavily pretreated MF and SS.112-114 In a multicenter dose -finding study 
that evaluated pralatrexate (10– 30 mg/m2 given weekly for 2 of 3 weeks or 
3 of 4 weeks) in 54 patients with relapsed or refractory MF and SS, the 
ORR for all evaluable patients was 41% (6% CR).112 Among the 29 
patients who received the recommended dose (15 mg/m2 weekly for 3 
weeks of a 4 -week cycle), the ORR was 45% (3% CR).112 In the subgroup 
of patients with relapsed/refractory LCT of MF treated on the PROPEL trial, pralatrexate (30 mg/m
2) resulted in an ORR of 58% (25% by 
independent review).113 The median PFS and OS were 5 months and 13 
months, respectively.  
Gemcitabine  
Gemcitabine monotherapy is an effective treatment option for patients with 
heavily pretreated advanced- stage MF and SS.135-142 In a retrospective 
observational study of 25 patients with advanced MF and SS, after a long- term follow -up of 15 years, the estimated OS, PFS, and DFS rates PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-28 were 47%, 9%, and 40%, respectively.139 In a single- center study of 14 
patients with heavily pretreated MF (n = 12) and SS (n = 2), gemcitabine 
resulted in an ORR of 57% (all were in the skin compartment) and the 
median time- to-next treatment was 12 months.142 Retrospective studies 
have also reported favorable clinical outcomes (ORR and PFS) with 
low-dose gemcitabine in patients with previously treated MF and SS.140,141  
Liposomal Doxorubicin  
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin has shown single- agent activity in 
patients with pretreated, advanced, or refractory MF and SS.142- 147  
In a phase II EORTC multicenter trial of 49 patients with relapsed/refractory advanced MF (stage IIB, IVA, or IVB) after at least two 
prior systemic therapies, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin resulted in an 
ORR of 41% (6% CR), with a median duration of res ponse and median 
time to progression (TTP) of 6 months and 7 months, respectively.
145 
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin was well tolerated with no grade 3 or 4 
hematologic toxicities; the most common grade 3 or 4 toxicities included 
dermatologic toxicity other than hand and foot reaction (6%), constitutional 
symptoms (4%), gastrointestinal t oxicities (4%), and infection (4%).  
In a single- center study of 32 patients (MF, n = 25; SS, n = 7) treated with 
pegylated liposomal doxorubicin for heavily pretreated MF (n = 25) and SS 
(n = 7), the ORR was 58% for the entire study population (71% in skin, 
44% in blood, and 33% in lymph nodes).142 The toxicity profile was also 
consistent with that reported in the phase II study, with fatigue, peripheral 
edema, anemia, hyperpigmentation, and hand -foot syndrome being the 
most common toxicities of all grades. Another real -life cohort study (36 
patient s; MF, n = 34; SS, n = 2) also confirmed the activity of pegylated 
liposomal doxorubicin for advanced MF and SS, especially in patients with tumor stage disease.
147   Extracorporeal Photopheresis  
ECP has been demonstrated as an effective treatment option in many 
retrospective studies, resulting in an ORR of 42% to 74%.133,179- 186  
In a meta -analysis involving more than 400 patients with MF and SS, ECP 
as monotherapy resulted in a 56% ORR with a 15% CR.180 The 
corresponding response rates were 58% (15% CR) for erythrodermic disease (T4) and 43% (10% CR) for SS. In one retrospective study of 39 
patients with MF and SS (31 patients with T4 disease and 8 patients with 
T2 disease), ECP resulted in a skin ORR of  74% (33% of patients 
achieved ≥50% partial skin response and 41% of patients achieved ≥90% improvement).
183 After a median follow -up of 72 months, the median OS 
was 9 years from diagnosis and 7 years from the initiation of treatment with ECP.  Another retrospective study of 50 patients with MF reported an 
ORR of 42% and an OS of 72 months with no statistically s ignificant 
differences in OS among patients with early -stage and late -stage disease 
(77 months and 69 months, respectively; P = .077).
185 A real -word 
retrospective analysis (52 patients; 50% of patients has SS and 37% had 
MF) also showed that ECP is an effective treatment options for patients 
with MF and SS, resulting in a response rate of 37% (51% reduction in 
BSA) and the median time to r esponse was 6.5 months. The median 
duration of treatment was 10 months.187 
The degree of blood involvement, CD4/CD8 ratio, and amount of 
circulating CD3+CD8+ cells or CD4(+)CD7( -) lymphocytes have been 
identified as predictors of clinical response.132,133,188 ECP is generally given 
for at least 6 months and may be more appropriate as systemic therapy for patients with or at risk of blood involvement (B1 or B2; erythrodermic stage 
III disease or IVA with S S).
180,186 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-29 Combination Therapies 
Skin -Directed + Systemic Therapies 
Phototherapy is most commonly used in combination with either IFN189-192 
or systemic retinoid.151,157,193- 195  
In a prospective randomized study that evaluated IFN combined with 
PUVA versus IFN combined with retinoids in patients with stage I or II 
CTCL (n = 82 evaluable), the combination of IFN with PUVA resulted in 
significantly higher CR rates in this patient population (70% vs. 38%).189 In 
another prospective phase II trial in patients with early -stage MF (stages 
IA–IIA; n = 89), the combination of low -dose IFN alfa with PUVA resulted 
in an ORR of 98% (84% CR).191  
In a phase III randomized study from the EORTC that evaluated the combination of bexarotene with PUVA compared with PUVA alone in 
patients with early -stage MF (stage IB and IIA; n = 93), the ORR for the 
combination of bexarotene with PUVA was 77% (31% CR) compared to 71% (22% CR) for PUVA alone; the median duration of response was 6 
months and 10 months, respectively.
151 A trend towards fewer PUVA 
sessions and lower UVA doses to achieve CR was observed with the combination arm, although the differences were not significant.
151 This trial 
was closed prematurely due to low patient accrual.  
A small prospective study evaluated the combination of low -dose 
bexarotene in combination with PUVA maintenance in 21 patients with MF 
and SS (stages IB –IV) resistant or intolerant to previous therapies.193 The 
ORR was 86% after induction therapy with bexarotene (93% for early -stage disease and 66.6% for advanced disease). At the end of 
maintenance, the ORR was 76% (33% CR) and the median event -free 
survival (EFS) for the whole group was 31 months.
  
In a retrospective analysis of 128 patients with MF (118 patients had 
early -stage disease; stage ≤ IIA), acitretin (either as monotherapy or in combination with phototherapy or topical steroids) resulted in an ORR of 77% (44% CR and 33% PR) with a trend towards better response rate in 
the combination arm compared to monotherapy.
157 The median duration of 
response was 24 months.  
ECP used in combination with TSEBT or phototherapy (narrowband UVB or PUVA) has also resulted in high durable clinical response in patients 
with erythrodermic MF and SS.
196,197 In a retrospective study of 44 patients 
with erythrodermic MF, the combination of TSEBT with ECP (concurrent or sequential following TSEBT) significantly improved PFS compared with 
TSEBT alone.
196 The 2- year PFS and OS rates were 36% and 63%, 
respectively, for patients treated with TSEBT alone compared with 66% and 88% for those treated with TSEBT + ECP.  
There are limited efficacy and safety data for the use of TSEBT in 
combination with systemic retinoids, brentuximab vedotin, HDAC inhibitors 
(vorinostat or romidepsin), or mogamulizumab.
198- 202  
Systemic Combination Therapies  
Systemic combination therapy regimens have been shown to improve 
response rates in patients with early -stage disease with inadequate 
response to single- agent therapy or those with advanced- stage CTCL.  
ECP with IFN and/or systemic retinoid and IFN with systemic retinoid are the most commonly evaluated combination therapies for patients with 
CTCL.
152-154,203 -205 The combination of oral isotretinoin and IFN alfa 
resulted in an ORR of 85% and the estimated 5- year OS rate was 94% for 
patients with early -stage MF and 35% for advanced- stage MF.152 ECP in 
combination with IFN and/or systemic retinoids resulted in a response rate of 84% in patients with advanced CTCL and the 5 -year OS rates for the 
subgroups of patients with stage IIIB, IVA1, IVA2, and IVB were 80%, 80%, 76%, and 0%, respectively.
204,205 Other systemic combination 
therapy regimens have also been studied.206-208  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-30 However, aforementioned studies that have evaluated the systemic 
combination regimens are limited by small sample size and there are no 
data from prospective randomized clinical studies to support the use of a 
specific systemic combination therapy regimen.   
Additional Therapy Based on Response to Primary Treatment  
Historically, the response criteria for MF and SS were poorly defined and 
validated response assessments were lacking. Response criteria for MF 
and SS have not been demonstrated to correlate with prognosis, and 
responses can vary between the different disease compartments (ie, skin, 
blood, lymph nodes).  
More recent studies have incorporated consensus response assessments 
and newer FDA -approved agents have undergone central review for 
efficacy outcomes. A proposal for the standardization of definition of 
response in skin, nodes, blood, and viscera has been published.209 The 
decisions to continue with or switch treatment regimens are often made 
based on clinical parameters. Imaging with the same modalities used in 
workup is indicated when there is suspicion of disease progression or 
extracutaneous disease.  
All patients (stage IA –IV) with a clinical benefit and/or those with disease 
responding to primary treatment should be considered for maintenance or tapering of regimens to optimize response duration. Disease relapse (with 
the same stage) after discontinuation of therapy often responds well to 
retreatment with previous therapy. Patients with persistent disease 
following completion of primary treatment should be treated with the other 
primary treatment options not received before to improve response before 
moving onto treatment for refractory disease.  
Currently there is no definitive treatment for refractory disease that can 
produce reliable durable remissions or curative results. Participation in a 
clinical trial is recommended for all patients with refractory disease. Multiagent  chemotherapy regimens recommended for PTCL can be 
considered for the treatment of refractory disease to multiple prior therapies.  
Special Considerations for Clinical Situations with Specific 
Pathologic Features  
Folliculotropic Mycosis Fungoides  
FMF is characterized by the infiltration of hair follicles by atypical T 
lymphocytes and resultant alopecia. Disease typically presents as plaques 
and tumors mainly on the head/neck and the risk profile varies with stage 
of the disease.21,210- 213 Recent studies have reported that FMF presents 
with two distinct patterns of clinicopathologic features with different 
prognostic implications (early stage and advanced stage). In a subgroup of 
patients with early skin- limited disease, FMF has an indolent disease 
course and a favorable prognosis, with early -stage cutaneous disease 
associated with significantly higher disease- specific survival compared to 
advanced- stage cutaneous disease.214-216  
In a report from the Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma Group that evaluated 
the treatment outcomes in patients with FMF (203 patients; 84 patients 
with early -stage FMF, 102 patients with advanced- stage FMF, and 17 
patients with extracutaneous FMF), treatment with t opical steroids and 
phototherapy with UVB or PUVA were more effective in patients with 
early -stage FMF resulting in an ORR of 83% (28% CR), 83%, and 88%, 
respectively.217 Local RT, TSEBT, and PUVA combined with RT were 
more effective in patients with advanced -stage FMF resulting in an ORR 
of 100% (63% CR), 100% (59% CR), and 75% (5% CR), respectively.  
Patients with early -stage FMF may benefit from standard skin -directed 
therapies used for the treatment of early -stage MF, and those with 
generalized indolent/plaque FMF (without evidence of LCT) should initially 
be considered for single- agent systemic therapy regimens before receiving 
multiagent chemotherapy regimens.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-31 Large -Cell Transformation  
LCT is diagnosed when large cells are present in >25% of 
lymphoid/tumor cell infiltrates in a skin lesion biopsy, and the incidence 
of LCT is strongly dependent on the disease stage at diagnosis (1% for 
early -stage disease, compared with 27% for stage IIB disease and 56% –
67% for stage IV disease).8-10 LCT is often, but not always, aggressive. 
CD30 expression is associated with LCT in MF or SS in 30% to 50% of 
cases, and this finding may have potential implications for CD30 -directed 
therapies.8-10,218 However, it should be noted that CD30 expression is 
variable in MF and SS, with the leukemic Sézary cells typically being 
CD30 -negative.  
Systemic therapy (brentuximab vedotin, gemcitabine, liposomal 
doxorubicin, pralatrexate, romidepsin, or pembrolizumab) with 
skin-directed therapies is the initial treatment for generalized cutaneous 
or extracutaneous lesions with LCT. In addition, concurrent management of coexisting disease based on clinical stage is recommended. Selected 
patients with localized LCT (ie, restricted to one or few T3 lesions or 
stage IA –IIA plaque disease) could be treated with EBRT alone, with 
continuation of other treatment  modalities used prior to transformation. 
Depending on the goals of treatment, multiagent chemotherapy regimens 
recommended for PTCL may be appropriate for the management of LCT, 
which is refractory to multiple prior therapies or when significant 
extracuta neous disease is present.   
Role of Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplant in MFSS  
Allogeneic HCT has a role in a subset of patients with advanced -stage 
MF and SS who have received multiple lines of therapy as shown in 
retrospective studies and small prospective series of patients with 
advanced MF and SS.
219- 226  
In a multicenter retrospective analysis of 37 patients with advanced -stage 
primary CTCL treated with allogeneic HCT (24 patients [65%] had stage IV MFSS or disseminated nodal or visceral involvement), after a median 
follow- up of 29 months, the incidence of relapse was 56% and the 
estimated 2 -year OS and PFS rates were 57% and 31%, respectively.219  
In a retrospective analysis of patients with advanced- stage MF and SS in 
the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) 
database (n = 60) treated with allogeneic HCT, the 5- year PFS and OS 
rates were 32% and 46%, respectively. The corresponding 7- year survival 
rates were 44% and 30%, respectively.220 The non- relapse mortality 
(NRM) rate at 7 years was 22%. Outcomes were not significantly different between histology types. However, patients with advanced- stage disease 
had an increased risk of relapse or progression as well as lower PFS, and myeloablati ve conditioning was associated with poorer NRM and OS. In 
an updated analysis, advanced- stage disease (refractory disease or PD 
after ≥3 lines of systemic therapy prior to transplant), a short interval 
between diagnosis, and transplant (<18 months) were independent 
adverse prognostic factors for PFS; advanced- stage disease and the use 
of unrelated donors were independent adverse prognostic factors for OS.
224  
In a case series of 47 patients with advanced -stage MF and SS who 
underwent allogeneic HCT after disease progression on conventional 
therapy, the estimated 4 -year OS and PFS rates were 51% and 26%, 
respectively.222 While there was no statistical difference in the OS in 
patients who had MF without LCT, SS, MF with LCT, or SS with LCT, the 
4-year PFS rate was superior in patients who had SS versus those who 
did not (52% vs.10%; P  = .02).  Another multicenter retrospective study, 
although limited by small sample size (26 patients; MF, n = 17; SS, n = 
9), reported superior outcomes with allogeneic HCT in patients with SS 
compared to MF.226 After a median follow -up of 5 years, patients with SS 
had lower relapse rates (11% at 5 years), longer TTNT (not reached), higher treatment -free survival (89% at 5 years) and OS (5 -year OS rate PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-32 was 100%) compared to those with MF (74%, 24 months, 16% and 52%, 
respectively).  Other systematic review and meta- analysis have reported 
pooled PFS and OS rates of 36% and 59%, respectively, following allogeneic HCT in patients with advanced- stage MF and SS.
227,228 
The survival benefit of allogeneic HCT in patients with advanced MF and 
SS was confirmed in a prospective, multicenter, propensity 
score -matched, controlled trial (99 patients with advanced MF and SS; 
55 patients assigned to the allogeneic HCT group and 44  patients 
assigned to the non -allogeneic HCT treatment option of investigator’s 
choice).229 After a median follow -up of 13 months, the median PFS was 
significantly longer in the allogeneic HCT group (9 vs. 3 months in the 
non-allogeneic HCT group; P < .0001). The 1- year PFS rates were 51% 
and 14%, respectively, for patients in the allogeneic HCT group and 
non-allogeneic HCT group. The 1 -year cumulative incidence of relapse 
was also lower in the allogeneic HCT group (45% compared to 86% in 
the non -allogeneic HCT group).  
The use of TSEBT with non- myeloablative allogeneic HCT has also been 
evaluated in patients with advanced MF and SS.230-232 In a study of 19 
patients with advanced CTCL, the use of TSEBT prior to allogeneic HCT 
provided improved disease control with an ORR of 68% (58% CR) with 
median OS not reached at the time of the report; the treatment -related 
mortality (TRM) rate was 21%.230 The safety and efficacy of a 
non-myeloablative conditioning regimen consisting of TSEBT and total 
lymphoid irradiation (TLI) + anti -thymocyte globulin (ATG) has also been 
demonstrated in prospective clinical studies.233,234 In a prospective clinical 
study of 35 patients with advanced- stage disease (13 patients with MF 
and 22 patients with SS), this regimen was associated with 1- year and 
2-year NRM of 3% and 14%, respectively.233 The 2- year incidence of 
moderate/severe chronic graft -versus- host disease (GVHD) was 32%. 
With a median post -transplant follow -up of 5 years, the 2 -year, 3 -year, and 5-year OS rates were 68%, 62%, and 56%, respectively. The 5- year PFS 
rate was 41%. Patients >65 years of age at the time of transplant had 
similar clinical outcomes compared with younger patients. This study also 
evaluated the utilization of high- throughpu t sequencing (HTS) to monitor 
minimal residual disease (MRD), and molecular remission aft er allogeneic 
HCT (achieved in 43% of patients) was associated with a lower incidence 
of PD or relapse. In another prospective study that evaluated the same 
non-myeloablative conditioning regimen (TSEBT + TLI + ATG) in 41 
patients with advanced -stage disease (34 patients with MF and 7 patients 
with SS), the 1 -year and 2- year NRM rates were 10% and 13%, 
respectively.234 Grade ≥2 acute and chronic GVHD were reported in 32% 
and 24% of patients, respectively. After a median follow -up of 5 years after 
transplant, the 5- year OS rate was 38% for the entire study population 
(37% for MF and 57% for SS). The 5- year cumulative inc idence of disease 
progression or relapse was 53% for all patients and these rates were 
significantly lower for patients achieving CR following transplant (21% 
compared to 71% in those not in CR; P  = .006).  
Allogeneic HCT may be considered for appropriate patients with stage 
IIB–IV disease that is refractory to multiple primary treatment options.235 
Based on the limited evidence, patients with erythrodermic MF and SS 
appear to receive the most benefit from allogeneic HCT, despite high 
post-transplant relapse rate. Allogeneic HCT is generally reserved for 
patients with systemic disease and/or extensiv e skin involvement that is 
refractory to or progressive after multiple lines of systemic therapy options. 
When appropriate, TSEBT may be considered as cytoreductive therapy 
before transplant.230,233 Novel conditioning regimens are being explored to 
provide improved disease control while limiting transplant -related 
complications.  
A transplant decision requires careful counseling to weigh the significant 
risks of this procedure versus the likelihood of long- term benefits and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-33 availability of alternate treatments. The ideal timing for allogeneic HCT is 
when the disease is well controlled with induction therapy and before the 
disease has progressed to a state where the chance of response or 
survival with allogeneic HCT is low.236  
Autologous HCT is not recommended for patients with CTCL, due to 
short duration of response despite its toxicity, thus limiting its utility.235,237 
While the majority of the deaths among patients undergoing autologous 
HCT may be attributable to PD, deaths associated with allogeneic HCT 
may be more due to NRM (the incidence of 1- year NRM in published 
reports with allogeneic HCT is approximately 11% –25%).219- 223  
Supportive Care  
Management of Pruritus  
Symptoms of pruritus can be present in a large majority (nearly 90%) of 
patients with CTCL, and may be associated with decreased quality of life 
for patients.238-240 Patients should be evaluated for pruritus at each visit. 
Other potential causes of pruritus (eg, contact dermatitis, atopic dermatitis, 
psoriasis, other inflammatory skin conditions) should be ruled out. The 
extent of pruritus (localized vs. generalized) and potential correlation 
between disease site and localization of pruritus should be noted.  
The treatment of pruritus requires optimizing skin- directed and systemic 
treatments. Daily use of moisturizers and emollients are helpful in 
maintaining and protecting the skin barrier. Topical steroids (with or 
without occlusion) can be effective in managing the disease and 
accompanying pruritus in early -stage disease.240,241 First-line options 
include H1 antihistamines (single- agent or combination of antihistamines 
from different classes) or the anticonvulsant gabapentin.238,242,243 
Neurokinin- 1 (NK -1) receptor antagonist aprepitant,244-246 the tetracyclic 
antidepressant mirtazapine, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors 
(SSRIs) may be considered in the second -line setting.247,248 Treatment with the oral opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone may be considered if symptoms of pruritus do not resolve with the above agents.
249  
Prevention and Treatment of Infections  
Infectious complications are frequent among patients with MF and SS, 
particularly cutaneous bacterial infections and cutaneous herpes viral 
infections (eg, herpes simplex virus [HSV] or herpes zoster virus [HZV] 
infections).250 Bacteremia/sepsis and bacterial pneumonia were reported 
as the major cause of death due to infections in a retrospective cohort 
study of patients with MF and SS.250 Several preventive measures such as 
maintaining/protecting the skin barrier (routine use of skin moisturizers and/or emollients), bleach baths or soaks (for limited areas only), 
avoidance of central lines (particularly for erythrodermic patients), and 
prophylactic use of mupirocin in cases of Staphylococcus aureus  
colonization can be incorporated to minimize infectious complications. HSV prophylaxis with acyclovir or equivalent should be considered for 
patients with frequent recurrence of HSV infection. Patients undergoing 
treatment with alemtuzumab- containing regimens should be closely 
monitored for cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation and preemptively treated with antivirals to avoid overt CMV disease.  
Cultures from skin swab and nares (nostrils) should be taken to evaluate for S. aureus  colonization/infection in patients with erythroderma and an 
active or suspected infection. Antimicrobial treatments may include intranasal mupirocin and/or oral dicloxacillin or cephalexin. Bleach baths 
or soaks may be helpful if the affected area is limi ted. Doxycycline or 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) should be considered for 
patients with suspected methicillin- resistant S. aureus  (MRSA) infection. If 
no improvements in infection status are observed with the above agents, 
or if bacteremia is suspected, vancomycin should be initiated, or 
appropriate alternative antibiotic options can be considered.
251 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-34 Infection with Gram -negative rods is common in necrotic tumors, and may 
lead to serious complications such as bacteremia/sepsis. For active or 
suspected infections in patients with ulcerated and necrotic tumors, blood 
cultures should be obtained and empiri c therapy with antibacterials should 
be considered even in the absence of a fever. An antimicrobial agent with broad- spectrum coverage (including coverage for both Gram -negative 
rods and Gram -positive cocci) should be chosen initially. The role of 
skin/wou nd culture is not clear in this setting.  
Further information on empiric therapy in patients with cancer at risk for 
infections is included in the NCCN Guidelines for the Prevention and 
Treatment of Cancer -Related Infections.   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-35 Table 1. Systemic Therapy for MF and SS  
 
a. CD30 expression in ≥10% of total lymphoid cells in at least one skin biopsy. b. Patients with stage IV disease were enroll ed in the study but not included in the primary efficacy analysis.  
c. CD25 -positiity was defined as detectable CD25 in ≥20% of total lymphoid cells in biopsy specimen by IHC.  
 CR, complete response; IRC, independent review committee; LCT, large cell transformation; MF, mycosis fungoides; ORR, overall  response rate; PFS, progression-free survival; PS, 
performance status; RCT, randomized control trial; RT, radiation therapy; SS, S ézary syndrome; TSEBT, total skin electronic beam therapy;    Continued on next page  Trial  Regimen/Dose  Disease Stage  
and  
No. of Patients (n)  Patient Characteristics  Median 
Follow -up ORR Median PFS  
ALCANZA trial  
(Phase III RCT)101 
 Brentuximab vedotin   
(1.8 mg/kg every 3 weeks; 16 3-week 
cycles)  Stage IA –IVB MF  
(n = 48)  ECOG PS 0 -2; 
≥18 years with relapsed or refractory 
CD30 -expressing MFa (≥1 prior systemic 
therapy or RT); Patients with MF and B1 
blood involvement were considered 
eligible; Patients with SS (B2 blood 
involvement) and those with disease 
progression on prior methotrexate and 
bexarotene were excluded.  46 months  55%  
(17% CR)  17 months  
Oral methotrexate (5 –50 mg once per 
week) for 48 weeks  
Stage IA –IVB MF  
(n = 49)  13%  
(2% CR)  4 months  
Oral bexarotene (300 mg/m² once per 
day) for 48 weeks  
MAVORIC trial  
(Phase III RCT)102 
 Mogamulizumab   
(1 mg/kg IV on a weekly basis for the 
first 28 -day cycle, then on days 1 and 
15 of subsequent cycles)  Stage IB –IVA  
(n = 186)  ECOG PS 0 -1; 
≥18 years with relapsed or refractory MF 
and SS (≥1 prior systemic therapy); 
Patients with LCT at study entry were 
excluded. CCR4 expression was not a 
requirement for participation in the trial.  17 months  28%  
(23% by IRC)  8 months  
(7 months by IR)  
 Vorinostat (400 mg daily)  Stage IB –IVA 
(n = 186)  5%  
(4% by IRC)  3 months  
(4 months by IR)  
Study 302 103 Denileukin diftitox (reformulated)  
(9 mcg/kg/day IV over 60 min for 5 days 
every 21 days up to 8 cycles).  Stage IA - IIIB MF  
(n = 69)b ECOG PS 0 -2; Adequate organ function;  
≥18 years with recurrent or persistent 
CD25 -positive MF and SSc  
(≥1 prior systemic therapy;  
no prior denileukin diftitox).  — 42% 
(36% by IRC);  — 
Phase II and III104 
 Bexarotene  300 mg/m2/day Stage IA –IIA 
(n = 28)  ≥18 years with refractory or persistent MF 
(after ≥2 prior therapies: phototherapy or 
TSEBT or topical mechlorethamine)  — 54% — 
>300 mg/m2/day Stage IA –IIA  
(n = 15)  — 67% — 
 
Phase II and III105 
 Bexarotene  300 mg/m2/day Stage IIB –IVB  
(n = 56)  ≥18 years with refractory or persistent MF 
and SS  — 
45% — 
>300 mg/m2/day Stage IIB –IVB  
(n = 38)  — 55% 
(13% CR)  — PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-36 Table 1. Systemic Therapy for MF and SS  
 
CR, complete response; MF, mycosis fungoides; ORR, overall response rate; PFS, progression- free survival; PS, performance status; SS, Sézary syndrome;  
 
 Trial  Regimen/Dose  Disease Stage and 
No. of Patients (n) Patient Characteristics  Median 
Follow -up ORR Median PFS  
Phase IIB107 Vorinostat (400 mg daily)  Stage IB –IVA 
(n = 74)  ECOG PS 0 –2; 
≥18 years with progressive, persistent, or 
recurrent MF and SS (after ≥2 prior 
systemic therapies including bexarotene)  — 30%  
Phase II110 
 Romidepsin  (14 mg/m2 as a 
4-hour IV infusion on days 1, 8, 
and 15 of each 28 -day cycle for 
up to 6 cycles)  Stage IB –IVA 
(n = 96)  ECOG PS 0 –1; 
≥18 years with relapsed or refractory MF 
and SS (≥1 prior systemic therapy)  — 34%  
(6% CR)   
PDX-010 
(Dose -escalation study)112 Pralatrexate (15 mg/m2, weekly 
for 3 out of 4 weeks)  Stage IB –IVA 
(n = 29)  ECOG PS 0 –2; 
≥18 years with progressive MF and SS 
(after ≥1 prior systemic therapy)  — 45% Not reached  
Phase II116 Alemtuzumab (IV 30 mg)  Stage II or IV  
(n = 22)  WHO PS ≤2;  
≥18 years with CD52- positive relapsed or 
refractory MF and SS (≤5 prior systemic 
therapy)  — 55%  
(32% CR)   
Subcutaneous 
alemtuzumab117 Alemtuzumab (SC 10 mg 
maximum per administration)  SS (n = 14)  Median age 72 years;  
Previously untreated (n = 3) or 
relapsed/refractory (n = 11) SS with high 
counts of circulating Sézary cells  — 86%  
(21% CR)  Median survival  
(35 months)  
Phase II  
(CITN-10)121 Pembrolizumab (2 mg/kg IV, 
every 3 weeks)  Stage IIB –IVB 
(n = 24)  ECOG PS 0 –1; 
≥18 years with relapsed or refractory MF 
and SS (≥1 prior systemic therapy)  — 38% 65%  
(1-year PFS rate)  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-37  
 
Primary Cutaneous CD30+ T -Cell Lymphoproliferative 
Disorders 
Primary cutaneous CD30+ T- cell lymphoproliferative disorders (PCTLD) 
represent a spectrum that includes primary cutaneous anaplastic large- cell 
lymphoma (PC -ALCL), lymphomatoid papulosis (LyP), and “borderline” 
cases with overlapping clinical and histopathologic features.252,253 In a 
SEER database analysis of 14,942 cases of CTCL diagnosed in the 
United States between 2000 and 2018, PC -ALCL was the second most 
common CTCL with MF being the most common CTCL.5 Primary 
cutaneous disease, spontaneous regression, and absence of 
extracutaneous spread are associated with a better prognosis.254,255 
PC-ALCL represents approximately 8% of all cutaneous T- cell lymphomas 
(CTCL) and is histologically characterized by diffuse, cohesive sheets of 
large CD30- positive (in >75%) cells with anaplastic, pleomorphic, or 
immunoblastic appearance.2 Patches and plaques may also be present, 
and some degree of spontaneous remittance in lesions may also be seen. 
PC-ALCL typically follows an indolent course with an excellent prognosis, 
although cutaneous relapses are more common.256- 258 A SEER database 
analysis of 501 cases of PC -ALCL diagnosed in the United States 
between 2005 and 2016, reported favorable overall survival (OS) rates (5-year and 10 -year OS rates were 81% and 62%, respectively) with age 
≥60 years and the use of chemotherap y were predictive of lower OS 
rates.
259 Clinical features typically include solitary or localized nodules or 
tumors (often ulcerated); multifocal lesions occur in approximately 20% of cases. Extracutaneous disease occurs in approximately 10% of cases, 
usually involving regional lymph nodes.
257 The presence of multiple 
cutaneous lesions at presentation, extensive skin lesions on the leg, disease progression to extracutaneous disease, early cutaneous relapse, and nodal progression are associated with poorer outcomes.
260-262  
LyP is histologically heterogenous with large atypical anaplastic, 
immunoblastic, or Hodgkin- like cells in a marked inflammatory 
background.253 Several histologic subtypes have been defined based on 
the evolution of skin lesions. Clinical features include chronic, recurrent, 
spontaneously regressing papulonodular (grouped or generalized) skin 
lesions. LyP is not considered a malignant disorder and has an excellent 
prognosis with an OS rate of 92% at 5 and 10 years.258 However, LyP has 
also been reported to be associated with an increased risk of secondary lymphomas such as mycosis fungoides (MF), PC -ALCL, systemic ALCL, 
or Hodgkin lymphoma.
263-268 Older age, positive TCR  gene rearrangement, 
or diagnosis of mixed- type LyP have been reported as prognostic 
indicators of disease progression to lymphoma.264,266 
Literature Search Criteria  
Prior to the update of this version of the NCCN Clinical Practice 
Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®) for Primary Cutaneous 
Lymphomas, an electronic search of the PubMed database was 
performed to obtain key literature on PCTLD published since the 
previous Guidelines update using the following search terms: primary 
cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma  and LyP. The PubMed 
database was chosen as it remains the most widely used resource for medical literature and indexes peer -reviewed biomedical liter ature.
13  
The search results were narrowed by selecting studies in humans 
published in English. The data from key PubMed articles deemed as 
relevant to these guidelines have been included in this version of the 
Discussion section. Recommendations for which high- level evidence is 
lacking are based on the Panel’s review of lower -level evidence and 
expert opinion.  This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous  
Lymphomas . Last updated: April 1 , 2025.   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-38 The complete details of the Development and Update of the NCCN 
Guidelines are available at www.NCCN.org .  
Diagnosis  
As described earlier, PCTLD is a spectrum of clinical presentation including LyP (mostly papular and always regressing), PC -ALCL (mostly 
nodular and persistent), and also “borderline” presentations where lesions regress but take longer or are larger and not papular as in LyP.
2 Clinical 
and pathologic correlation is essential for distinguishing within the 
spectrum of PCTLD as well as distinguishing PCTLD from other 
cutaneous CD30+ disorders (ie, systemic ALCL, adult T- cell 
leukemia/lymphoma [ATLL], peripheral T -cell lymphoma [PTC L], MF with 
large cell transformation [MF -LCT], and benign disorders such as 
lymphomatoid drug reactions, arthropod bites, viral infections). MF and PCTLD can coexist in the same patient. Lymphomatoid drug reactions 
have been linked with certain drugs (eg, amlodipine, carbamazepine, 
cefuroxime) and may be associated with CD30+ atypical large cells in 
histology. Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is less often associated with 
MF and PCTLD than previously thought; however, coexpression of CD30 
and CD15 in these T -cell lymphomas may lead to a mistaken diagnosis of 
CHL.
269 It is therefore important not to diagnose CD30+ T- cell lymphomas 
in lymph nodes as Hodgkin lymphoma.  
Complete skin examination (for any sign of benign or malignant skin 
lesions), adequate biopsy (punch, incisional, or excisional) of suspicious 
skin lesions, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) of skin biopsy specimen are 
essential to confirm the diagnosis. Molecular analysis to detect clonal TCR 
gene rearrangements, e xcisional or incisional biopsy of suspicious lymph 
nodes, and assessment of human T -cell lymphotropic virus type 1 
(HTLV -1) serology to identify CD30+ ATLL would be helpful in selected 
circumstances . However, TCR gene rearrangement may not be 
demonstrated in all cases of PCTLD and TCR rearrangements can also be seen in patients with non -malignant conditions. Demonstration of identical 
clones in skin, blood, and/or lymph nodes may be helpful in selected 
cases.36 Identification of clonal TCR gene rearrangement has no definitive 
established prognostic value; however, it could be helpful to determine clinical staging or assess relapsed or residual disease.   
PCTLD are characterized by the following immunophenotype: CD30+ 
(>75% cells), CD4+, variable loss of CD2/CD5/CD3, and CD8+ (<5%) 
cytotoxic granule -associated proteins positive. ALK -positive PC -ALCL is 
extremely uncommon and t(2;5) translocation is typicall y absent in CD30+ 
PCTLD.
270,271 ALK positivity and differential expression of t(2;5) can help to 
distinguish between CD30+ PCTLD and ALCL of nodal origin.  GATA3 
expression by IHC has been proposed to be useful to differentiate 
between MF- LCT and CD30+ PCTLD.272 MF-LCT was associated with a 
strong/diffuse expression of GATA3 while the CD30+ PCTLD showed 
variable/moderate expression of GATA3 . MUM1 expression is valuable to 
distinguish between LyP and PC -ALCL, since the majority of cases of LyP 
(87%) are positive for MUM1 staining compared to only 20% of cases with 
PC-ALCL.273 
The IHC panel may include CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20, CD30, CD56, and 
ALK. Additional markers such as CD2, CD5, CD7, CD25, TIA1, granzyme 
B, perforin, TCR beta, and TCR delta, IRF4/MUM1, and EMA may be 
useful in selected circumstances. Abnormal T -cell phenotype and perforin 
expression are significantly more frequent in PC -ALCL than in transformed 
MF and may be useful for the differential diagnosis between PC -ALCL and 
CD30 -expressing transformed MF.274  
DUSP22 -IRF4  (6p25.3) gene rearrangement has been described in 
patients with PC -ALCL and LyP but is not associated with prognostic 
significance.275- 277 In a large multicenter study that investigated the clinical 
utility of detecting IRF4  translocations in skin biopsies of T- cell 
lymphoproliferative disorders, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-39 IRF4 had a specificity and positive predictive value of 99% and 90%, 
respectively, for cutaneous ALCL.275 FISH to detect ALK and 
DUSP22 -IRF4 rearrangements would be useful in selected circumstances. 
HTLV -1 status, assessed either by HTLV -1 serology or other methods, 
may be useful in populations at risk to exclude the diagnosis of 
CD30 -positive ATLL (which is usually HTLV -1 positive).  
Workup  
The initial workup involves a history and complete physical examination including entire skin, palpation of peripheral lymph node regions, and liver 
or spleen. Laboratory studies should include complete blood count (CBC) 
with differential, a comprehensive metabolic panel, and assessment of 
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels. Many skin- directed and systemic 
therapies are contraindicated or are of unknown safety in pregnancy. Therefore, pregnancy testing is recommended for individuals of 
childbearing age.  
Biopsy of enlarged lymph nodes or extracutaneous sites is recommended if biopsy of skin is non -diagnostic. Fine- needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy 
alone is not sufficient for the initial diagnosis. Excisional or incisional biopsy is preferred over core needle biopsy. In certain circumstances, 
when a lymph node is not easily accessible for excisional or incisional 
biopsy, a combination of core needle biopsy and FNA biopsy in 
conjunction with appropriate ancillary techniques may be sufficient for 
diagnosis. Bone marrow evaluation has limited value in the staging of 
patients with PC -ALCL and is not required for disease staging.
278 Bone 
marrow aspiration and biopsy may be considered for solitary PC -ALCL or 
PC-ALCL without extracutaneous involvement on imaging.  
Contrast -enhanced CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis or 
integrated whole- body PET/CT is recommended for PC -ALCL. PET scan 
may be preferred for patients with extranodal disease, which is inadequately imaged by CT. In LyP, imaging studies and bone marrow 
evaluation are done only if there is suspicion of systemic involvement by 
an associated lymphoma.  
Primary Cutaneous ALCL 
Radiation Therapy  
In a report from the Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma Group that evaluated the 
long- term outcome of patients with PCTLD (118 patients with LyP, 79 
patients with PC -ALCL, and 11 patients with PC -ALCL with regional node 
involvement), radiation therapy (RT) or surgic al excision as initial therapy 
(given for 48% and 19% of patients, respectively) resulted in a complete 
response (CR) rate of 100% in patients with PC -ALCL.257 After a median 
follow- up of 61 months, subsequent skin- only relapse and extracutaneous 
disease were reported in 41% and 10% of patients, respectively.  
A multicenter retrospective analysis of patients with PC -ALCL (n = 56) 
eligible to receive RT (primary therapy or after surgical excision) reported 
a clinical complete response (cCR) rate of 95% and a local control rate of 
98% after a median follow -up of 4 years.279 Although the median RT dose 
was 35 Gy (range, 6– 45 Gy), CRs were seen with doses as low as 6 Gy 
and the achievement of cCR was independent of the RT dose, suggesting 
that lower RT dose of <30 Gy may be appropriate for the management of 
localized lesions. The efficacy of low -dose RT (≤20 Gy) for the treatment 
of solitary or localized PC -ALCL was also confirmed in other recent 
reports.280-282  
Involved- site RT (ISRT) alone or surgical excision (with or without ISRT) 
are recommended for patients with solitary or grouped lesions.256-258,283 -286 
ISRT alone is an appropriate option in selected patients with cutaneous 
ALCL regional lymph node involvement ± primary skin lesions.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-40 Systemic Therapy  
In the ALCANZA study that included 31 patients with previously treated 
PC-ALCL, overall response rate (ORR) lasting for ≥4 months was 
significantly higher for brentuximab vedotin compared to the physician’s 
choice of treatment with methotrexate or bexarotene (75% vs. 20%), and 
the proportion of patients achieving CR was also higher with brentuximab 
vedotin than with physician’s choice (31% vs. 7%).100  
In a multicenter study that evaluated the efficacy of treatment options in 
patients with multifocal lesions included in the Dutch Registry for 
Cutaneous Lymphomas prior to the FDA approval of brentuximab vedotin 
(24 patients with initial presentation and 17 patients with relapsed 
disease), RT (n = 21), systemic chemotherapy (n = 9), and low -dose 
methotrexate (n = 7) were the most common treatment options resulting in ORRs of 100% (100% CR), 100% (78% CR), and 57% (43% CR), 
respectively.
287 The presence of greater than five skin lesions was 
associated with a higher risk of extracutaneous relapse (56% vs. 20% for the presence of 2– 5 skin lesions).  
In the aforementioned report from the Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma 
Group, which evaluated the long- term outcome of 219 patients with 
PCTLD, 9 of 11 patients (82%) with PC -ALCL and regional node 
involvement received CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincrist ine, 
and prednisone) -like multiagent chemotherapy as initial therapy (82%), 
resulting in a CR in eight patients (88%).
257 However, five out of these 
eight patients experienced skin relapses during follow -up. After a median 
follow- up of 58 months, disease- related 5- year survival rate was 91%.  
In November 2018, the FDA approved brentuximab vedotin in combination 
with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone (CHP) for the 
treatment of previously untreated systemic ALCL or other CD30‐ positive 
PTCL based on the results of the ECHELON ‐2 trial, which showed that 
brentuximab vedotin + CHP was superior to CHOP for patients with CD30 -positive PTCL as shown by a significant improvement in 
progression- free survival (PFS) and OS.288 This trial, however, excluded 
patients with PC -ALCL. However, since CHOP is included as an option for 
primary treatment (other recommended regimens) for cutaneous ALCL 
with regional nodes, the Panel acknowledged that brentuximab vedotin + 
CHP would also b e an appropriate option for these patients.  
Systemic therapy is indicated only for multifocal lesions (± skin- directed 
therapy) and for those with regional node involvement (± ISRT). 
Brentuximab vedotin is the preferred systemic treatment option based on 
the results of the ALCANZA study.100 Low-dose methotrexate (50 mg 
weekly),289,290 pralatrexate,112 systemic retinoids (bexarotene for multifocal 
lesions),291- 294 and interferon (multifocal lesions)291,295- 297 are included as 
options for other recommended regimens based on the limited available data. Peginterferon alfa- 2a is the only interferon available for clinical use in 
the United States and it may be substituted for other interferon preparations.
126-128 Observation (if asymptomatic) is appropriate for 
patients with multifocal lesions.  
Brentuximab vedotin + CHP is included as an option under other 
recommended regimens for the primary treatment for patients with 
cutaneous ALCL with regional nodes.288 Multiagent chemotherapy (CHOP 
or CHOEP [cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, etoposide, and prednisone]) with or without ISRT is included as an option for selected 
patients with regional lymph node involvement.
257,298 
Lymphomatoid Papulosis  
It is important to be reminded that LyP is not a malignant disorder but a recurrent, benign, self -regressing lymphoid proliferation. Although 
multiagent chemotherapy often leads to reduction or clearance of lesions, rapid recurrence shortly after or even during treatment is a consistent 
finding in patients with LyP.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-41 In the aforementioned report from the Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma Group 
that included 118 patients with LyP, topical steroids and phototherapy 
were the most common skin- directed therapies used as initial treatment in 
56% and 35% of patients, respectively.257 Although CR or partial response 
(PR) were common, none of these therapies resulted in sustained CR. In a 
retrospective multicenter study of 252 patients with LyP, topical  steroids 
and phototherapy were the most common first -line treatments (prescribed 
in 35% and 14% of the patients, respectively) resulting in a CR rate of 
48%.299 The overall estimated median disease- free survival (DFS) was 
11 months, but the DFS was longer for patients treated with phototherapy 
(23 months; P < .03). The presence of type A LyP and the use of first -line 
treatment other than phototherapy were significantly associated with increased risk of early cutaneous relapse.  
In a retrospective study of 45 patients with LyP and other CD30+ PCTLD, low-dose methotrexate (≤25 mg) resulted in satisfactory disease control in 
87% of patients, and the median total duration of treatment was >39 
months for all patients.
300 After discontinuation, 25% of patients remained 
free of disease relapse during the follow -up period of 24 to 227 months. 
Another study that evaluated the efficacy of low -dose methotrexate in a 
cohort of 28 patients with LyP reported that satisfactory disease control could be achieved at 7.5 -mg to 10 -mg weekly doses of methotrexate.
289  
Observation is preferred for patients with asymptomatic disease. Topical 
steroids or phototherapy are appropriate initial treatment options for limited 
lesions (in symptomatic patients) or extensive lesions.257,292,301- 303 In 
patients receiving phototherapy, narrowband ultraviolet B (UVB) is 
generally preferred over psoralen plus ultraviolet A (PUVA). Systemic 
therapy is indicated only for patients with extensive lesions. Methotrexate 
is widely used for the treatment of LyP .289,299,300,304- 309 Systemic retinoids 
(bexarotene) are included as an option based on limited available data 
mainly from case reports.291- 294 Follow -up and Treatment for Relapsed/Refractory Disease  
Patients with a clinical benefit and/or those with disease responding to 
initial treatment can be considered for maintenance or tapering of 
regimens to optimize response duration. Patients with disease that does 
not have adequate response to initial treatm ent are generally treated with 
an alternative regimen recommended for initial treatment before moving on to treatment for refractory disease. Disease relapse often responds well 
to the same treatment. In patients with PC -ALCL, refractory disease to 
multiple prior therapies should be managed with systemic therapy options 
recommended for MF with LCT.  
Brentuximab vedotin is included as an option for LyP that is refractory to 
multiple primary treatment options.
159,310 In a phase II study of 12 patients 
with refractory LyP, brentuximab vedotin resulted in an ORR of 100% and a CR rate of 58%.
310 The median duration of response was 20 weeks. 
Grade 1 or 2 peripheral neuropathy was the most common adverse event reported in 10 patients (83%). Further studies are needed to optimize the 
dosing to minimize the incidences of peripheral neuropathy.  
Regular follow -up (including complete skin examination) is essential during 
observation since these patients can develop associated hematologic 
malignancies (particularly MF or ALCL) over time.
299,311 Life-long follow -up 
(including thorough skin examination) is warranted for patients with LyP (even for patients with disease responding to initial treatment) due to high 
risks for second lymphoid malignancies.  
  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-42 References  
1. Bradford PT, Devesa SS, Anderson WF, Toro JR. Cutaneous 
lymphoma incidence patterns in the United States: a population- based 
study of 3884 cases. Blood 2009;113:5064- 5073. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19279331 . 
2. Willemze R, Cerroni L, Kempf W, et al. The 2018 update of the WHO -
EORTC classification for primary cutaneous lymphomas. Blood 
2019;133:1703 -1714. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30635287 . 
3. Teras LR, DeSantis CE, Cerhan JR, et al. 2016 US lymphoid 
malignancy statistics by World Health Organization subtypes. CA Cancer J 
Clin 2016;66:443- 459. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27618563 . 
4. Dummer R, Vermeer MH, Scarisbrick JJ, et al. Cutaneous T cell 
lymphoma. Nat Rev Dis Primers 2021;7:61. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34446710 . 
5. Cai ZR, Chen ML, Weinstock MA, et al. Incidence Trends of Primary 
Cutaneous T -Cell Lymphoma in the US From 2000 to 2018: A SEER 
Population Data Analysis. JAMA Oncol 2022;8:1690- 1692. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36048455 . 
6. Campbell JJ, Clark RA, Watanabe R, Kupper TS. Sezary syndrome and mycosis fungoides arise from distinct T -cell subsets: a biologic rationale 
for their distinct clinical behaviors. Blood 2010;116:767- 771. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20484084 . 
7. Olsen EA, Rook AH, Zic J, et al. Sezary syndrome: 
immunopathogenesis, literature review of therapeutic options, and 
recommendations for therapy by the United States Cutaneous Lymphoma 
Consortium (USCLC). J Am Acad Dermatol 2011;64:352 -404. Available at:  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21145619 . 
8. Diamandidou E, Colome- Grimmer M, Fayad L, et al. Transformation of 
mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome: clinical characteristics and prognosis. Blood 1998;92:1150- 1159. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9694702 . 
9. Vergier B, de Muret A, Beylot -Barry M, et al. Transformation of mycosis 
fungoides: clinicopathological and prognostic features of 45 cases. French 
Study Group of Cutaneious Lymphomas. Blood 2000;95:2212 -2218. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10733487.  
10. Arulogun SO, Prince HM, Ng J, et al. Long- term outcomes of patients 
with advanced- stage cutaneous T- cell lymphoma and large cell 
transformation. Blood 2008;112:3082 -3087. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18647960 . 
11. Choi J, Goh G, Walradt T, et al. Genomic landscape of cutaneous T 
cell lymphoma. Nat Genet 2015;47:1011 -1019. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26192916 . 
12. Kann BH, Park HS, Yeboa DN, et al. Annual facility treatment volume and patient survival for mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome. Clin 
Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2017;17:520- 526.e2. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28655598 . 
13. PubMed Overview. Available at: 
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/ . Accessed February 12, 2025.  
14. Olsen EA, Whittaker S, Willemze R, et al. Primary cutaneous 
lymphoma: recommendations for clinical trial design and staging update 
from the ISCL, USCLC, and EORTC. Blood 2022;140:419 -437. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34758074.  
15. de Coninck EC, Kim YH, Varghese A, Hoppe RT. Clinical 
characteristics and outcome of patients with extracutaneous mycosis 
fungoides. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:779 -784. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11157031 . 
16. Kim YH, Liu HL, Mraz -Gernhard S, et al. Long- term outcome of 525 
patients with mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome: clinical prognostic 
factors and risk for disease progression. Arch Dermatol 2003;139:857-
866. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12873880 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-43 17. Vidulich KA, Talpur R, Bassett RL, Duvic M. Overall survival in 
erythrodermic cutaneous T- cell lymphoma: an analysis of prognostic 
factors in a cohort of patients with erythrodermic cutaneous T -cell 
lymphoma. Int J Dermatol 2009;48:243 -252. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19261011 . 
18. Agar NS, Wedgeworth E, Crichton S, et al. Survival outcomes and 
prognostic factors in mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome: validation of 
the revised International Society for Cutaneous Lymphomas/European 
Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer staging proposal. J 
Clin Oncol 2010;28:4730 -4739. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20855822 . 
19. Talpur R, Singh L, Daulat S, et al. Long -term outcomes of 1,263 
patients with mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome from 1982 to 2009. Clin Cancer Res 2012;18:5051- 5060. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22850569 . 
20. Alberti -Violetti S, Talpur R, Schlichte M, et al. Advanced- stage mycosis 
fungoides and Sezary syndrome: survival and response to treatment. Clin 
Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2015;15:e105- 112. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25817937 . 
21. Scarisbrick JJ, Prince HM, Vermeer MH, et al. Cutaneous Lymphoma 
International Consortium study of outcome in advanced stages of mycosis 
fungoides and Sezary syndrome: Effect of specific prognostic markers on 
survival and development of a prognostic model. J Clin Oncol 
2015;33:3766 -3773. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26438120 . 
22. Bontoux C, de Masson A, Thonnart N, et al. Large- cell transformation 
is an independent poor prognostic factor in Sezary syndrome: analysis of 
117 cases. Br J Dermatol 2022;187:815 -817. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35791764 . 
23. Jairath NK, Bardhi R, Runge JS, et al. Predictors of large cell 
transformation in patients with Sezary Syndrome- A retrospective analysis. 
PLoS One 2022;17:e0277655. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36383618 . 24. Scarisbrick JJ, Quaglino P, Prince HM, et al. The PROCLIPI 
international registry of early -stage mycosis fungoides identifies 
substantial diagnostic delay in most patients. Br J Dermatol 2019;181:350 -
357. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30267549 . 
25. Hodak E, Sherman S, Papadavid E, et al. Should we be imaging 
lymph nodes at initial diagnosis of early -stage mycosis fungoides? Results 
from the PROspective Cutaneous Lymphoma International Prognostic Index (PROCLIPI) international study. Br J Dermatol  2021;184:524- 531. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32574377.  
26. Quaglino P, Prince HM, Cowan R, et al. Treatment of early -stage 
mycosis fungoides: results from the PROspective Cutaneous Lymphoma 
International Prognostic Index (PROCLIPI) study. Br J Dermatol 
2021;184:722 -730. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32479678 . 
27. Kim EJ, Hess S, Richardson SK, et al. Immunopathogenesis and therapy of cutaneous T cell lymphoma. J Clin Invest 2005;115:798 -812. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15841167.  
28. Martinez Villarreal A, Gantchev J, Lagace F, et al. Hypopigmented mycosis fungoides: loss of pigmentation reflects antitumor immune 
response in young patients. Cancers (Basel) 2020;12:2007. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32707930 . 
29. Jayasinghe DR, Dissanayake K, de Silva MVC. Comparison between 
the histopathological and immunophenotypical features of hypopigmented 
and nonhypopigmented mycosis fungoides: A retrospective study. J Cutan 
Pathol 2021;48:486- 494. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32965737 . 
30. Jung JM, Lee MY, Won CH, et al. Hyperpigmented mycosis fungoides: a retrospective and comparative analysis with other subtypes of mycosis 
fungoides. Leuk Lymphoma 2022;63:1598 -1606. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35201905 . 
31. Beygi S, Duran GE, Fernandez -Pol S, et al. Resistance to 
mogamulizumab is associated with loss of CCR4 in cutaneous T -cell PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-44 lymphoma. Blood 2022;139:3732- 3736. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35436328 . 
32. Battistella M, Beylot -Barry M, Bachelez H, et al. Primary cutaneous 
follicular helper T- cell lymphoma: a new subtype of cutaneous T -cell 
lymphoma reported in a series of 5 cases. Arch Dermatol 2012;148:832 -
839. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22508770 . 
33. Wang JY, Nguyen GH, Ruan J, Magro CM. Primary cutaneous 
follicular helper T- cell lymphoma: A case series and review of the 
literature. Am J Dermatopathol 2017;39:374- 383. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28375859 . 
34. Bosisio FM, Cerroni L. Expression of T -follicular helper markers in 
sequential biopsies of progressive mycosis fungoides and other primary 
cutaneous T -cell lymphomas. Am J Dermatopathol 2015;37:115 -121. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25406852.  
35. Park JH, Han JH, Kang HY, et al. Expression of follicular helper T -cell 
markers in primary cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. Am J Dermatopathol 
2014;36:465 -470. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24162385 . 
36. Thurber SE, Zhang B, Kim YH, et al. T -cell clonality analysis in biopsy 
specimens from two different skin sites shows high specificity in the diagnosis of patients with suggested mycosis fungoides. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2007;57:782- 790. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17646032 . 
37. Zhang B, Beck AH, Taube JM, et al. Combined use of PCR -based 
TCRG and TCRB clonality tests on paraffin- embedded skin tissue in the 
differential diagnosis of mycosis fungoides and inflammatory dermatoses. J Mol Diagn 2010;12:320 -327. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20203005 . 
38. Kirsch IR, Watanabe R, O'Malley JT, et al. TCR sequencing facilitates diagnosis and identifies mature T cells as the cell of origin in CTCL. Sci 
Transl Med 2015;7:308ra158. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26446955 . 39. de Masson A, O'Malley JT, Elco CP, et al. High- throughput 
sequencing of the T cell receptor beta gene identifies aggressive early -
stage mycosis fungoides. Sci Transl Med 2018;10:eaar5894. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29743350 . 
40. Horna P, Wang SA, Wolniak KL, et al. Flow cytometric evaluation of 
peripheral blood for suspected Sezary syndrome or mycosis fungoides: 
International guidelines for assay characteristics. Cytometry B Clin Cytom 
2021;100:142 -155. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32319723 . 
41. Martin- Moro F, Martin -Rubio I, Garcia -Vela JA. TRBC1 expression 
assessed by flow cytometry as a novel marker of clonality in cutaneous 
alphabeta T- cell lymphomas with peripheral blood involvement. Br J 
Dermatol 2022;187:623- 625. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35606929 . 
42. Castillo F, Morales C, Spralja B, et al. Integration of T -cell clonality 
screening using TRBC -1 in lymphoma suspect samples by flow cytometry. 
Cytometry B Clin Cytom 2024;106:64 -73. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38010106 . 
43. Nguyen PC, Nguyen T, Wilson C, et al. Evaluation of T- cell clonality by 
anti-TRBC1 antibody -based flow cytometry and correlation with T- cell 
receptor sequencing. Br J Haematol 2024;204:910- 920. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38098188 . 
44. Tsai EY, Taur A, Espinosa L, et al. Staging accuracy in mycosis 
fungoides and sezary syndrome using integrated positron emission 
tomography and computed tomography. Arch Dermatol 2006;142:577 -
584. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16702495 . 
45. Zackheim HS, Kashani -Sabet M, Amin S. Topical corticosteroids for 
mycosis fungoides. Experience in 79 patients. Arch Dermatol 
1998;134:949 -954. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9722724 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-45 46. Zackheim HS. Treatment of patch- stage mycosis fungoides with 
topical corticosteroids. Dermatol Ther 2003;16:283- 287. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14686970 . 
47. Kartan S, Shalabi D, O'Donnell M, et al. Response to topical 
corticosteroid monotherapy in mycosis fungoides. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2021;84:615 -623. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32428610 . 
48. Kim YH, Martinez G, Varghese A, Hoppe RT. Topical nitrogen mustard 
in the management of mycosis fungoides: update of the Stanford 
experience. Arch Dermatol 2003;139:165 -173. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12588222 . 
49. Lessin SR, Duvic M, Guitart J, et al. Topical chemotherapy in 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma: positive results of a randomized, controlled, 
multicenter trial testing the efficacy and safety of a novel mechlorethamine, 0.02%, gel in mycosis fungoides. JAMA D ermatol 
2013;149:25 -32. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23069814 . 
50. Breneman D, Duvic M, Kuzel T, et al. Phase 1 and 2 trial of 
bexarotene gel for skin- directed treatment of patients with cutaneous T -
cell lymphoma. Arch Dermatol 2002;138:325- 332. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11902983 . 
51. Heald P, Mehlmauer M, Martin AG, et al. Topical bexarotene therapy for patients with refractory or persistent early -stage cutaneous T- cell 
lymphoma: results of the phase III clinical trial. J Am Acad Dermatol 2003;49:801 -815. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14576658 . 
52. Apisarnthanarax N, Talpur R, Ward S, et al. Tazarotene 0.1% gel for refractory mycosis fungoides lesions: an open -label pilot study. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2004;50:600- 607. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15034511 . 
53. Besner Morin C, Roberge D, Turchin I, et al. Tazarotene 0.1% cream as monotherapy for early -stage cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. J Cutan Med Surg 2016;20:244 -248. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26742957 . 
54. Deeths MJ, Chapman JT, Dellavalle RP, et al. Treatment of patch and 
plaque stage mycosis fungoides with imiquimod 5% cream. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2005;52:275- 280. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15692473 . 
55. Coors EA, Schuler G, Von Den Driesch P. Topical imiquimod as 
treatment for different kinds of cutaneous lymphoma. Eur J Dermatol 
2006;16:391 -393. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16935796 . 
56. Martinez -Gonzalez MC, Verea- Hernando MM, Yebra -Pimentel MT, et 
al. Imiquimod in mycosis fungoides. Eur J Dermatol 2008;18:148 -152. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18424373.  
57. Lewis DJ, Byekova YA, Emge DA, Duvic M. Complete resolution of 
mycosis fungoides tumors with imiquimod 5% cream: a case series. J 
Dermatolog Treat 2017;28:567- 569. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28635518 . 
58. Zackheim HS. Topical carmustine (BCNU) for patch/plaque mycosis 
fungoides. Semin Dermatol 1994;13:202- 206. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7986689 . 
59. Zackheim HS. Topical carmustine (BCNU) in the treatment of mycosis fungoides. Dermatol Ther 2003;16:299 -302. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14686972 . 
60. Ortiz -Romero PL, Maronas Jimenez L, Muniesa C, et al. Activity and 
safety of topical pimecrolimus in patients with early stage mycosis 
fungoides (PimTo- MF): a single- arm, multicentre, phase 2 trial. Lancet 
Haematol 2022;9:e425 -e433. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35654076 . 
61. Piccinno R, Caccialanza M, Cuka E, Recalcati S. Localized 
conventional radiotherapy in the treatment of Mycosis Fungoides: our PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-46 experience in 100 patients. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2014;28:1040-
1044. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23998331 . 
62. Specht L, Dabaja B, Illidge T, et al. Modern radiation therapy for 
primary cutaneous lymphomas: field and dose guidelines from the 
International Lymphoma Radiation Oncology Group. Int J Radiat Oncol 
Biol Phys 2015;92:32- 39. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25863751 . 
63. Neelis KJ, Schimmel EC, Vermeer MH, et al. Low -dose palliative 
radiotherapy for cutaneous B - and T -cell lymphomas. Int J Radiat Oncol 
Biol Phys 2009;74:154- 158. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18834672 . 
64. Thomas TO, Agrawal P, Guitart J, et al. Outcome of patients treated with a single -fraction dose of palliative radiation for cutaneous T -cell 
lymphoma. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2013;85:747- 753. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22818412 . 
65. Elsayad K, Guenova E, Assaf C, et al. Radiotherapy in cutaneous 
lymphomas: Recommendations from the EORTC cutaneous lymphoma 
tumour group. Eur J Cancer 2024;212:115064. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39418694 . 
66. Ysebaert L, Truc G, Dalac S, et al. Ultimate results of radiation therapy 
for T1- T2 mycosis fungoides (including reirradiation). Int J Radiat Oncol 
Biol Phys 2004;58:1128- 1134. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15001254 . 
67. Harrison C, Young J, Navi D, et al. Revisiting low -dose total skin 
electron beam therapy in mycosis fungoides. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
2011;81:e651 -657. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21489711 . 
68. Navi D, Riaz N, Levin YS, et al. The Stanford University experience with conventional -dose, total skin electron -beam therapy in the treatment 
of generalized patch or plaque (T2) and tumor (T3) mycosis fungoides. 
Arch Dermatol 2011;147:561- 567. Availabl e at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21576575 . 69. Elsayad K, Kriz J, Moustakis C, et al. Total skin electron beam for primary cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
2015;93:1077 -1086. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26581145 . 
70. Kamstrup MR, Lindahl LM, Gniadecki R, et al. Low -dose total skin 
electron beam therapy as a debulking agent for cutaneous T -cell 
lymphoma: an open- label prospective phase II study. Br J Dermatol 
2012;166:399 -404. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21967035 . 
71. Hoppe RT, Harrison C, Tavallaee M, et al. Low -dose total skin electron 
beam therapy as an effective modality to reduce disease burden in patients with mycosis fungoides: results of a pooled analysis from 3 
phase- II clinical trials. J Am Acad Dermatol 2 015;72:286 -292. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25476993 . 
72. Kamstrup MR, Gniadecki R, Iversen L, et al. Low -dose (10- Gy) total 
skin electron beam therapy for cutaneous T- cell lymphoma: an open 
clinical study and pooled data analysis. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2015;92:138 -143. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25863761 . 
73. Kroeger K, Elsayad K, Moustakis C, et al. Low -dose total skin electron 
beam therapy for cutaneous lymphoma : Minimal risk of acute toxicities. 
Strahlenther Onkol 2017;193:1024- 1030. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28785772 . 
74. Morris S, Scarisbrick J, Frew J, et al. The results of low -dose total skin 
electron beam radiation therapy (TSEB) in patients with mycosis fungoides 
from the UK cutaneous lymphoma group. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
2017;99:627 -633. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28843374 . 
75. Georgakopoulos I, Papadavid E, Platoni K, et al. Low dose total skin 
electron beam therapy for the management of T cell cutaneous 
lymphomas. Dermatol Ther 2020;33:e13478. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32391976 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-47 76. Song A, Gochoco A, Zhan T, et al. A prospective cohort study of 
condensed low -dose total skin electron beam therapy for mycosis 
fungoides: Reduction of disease burden and improvement in quality of life. 
J Am Acad Dermatol 2020;83:78 -85. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32004646 . 
77. Elsayad K, Kroeger K, Greve B, et al. Low -dose total skin electron 
beam therapy: Quality of life improvement and clinical impact of 
maintenance and adjuvant treatment in patients with mycosis fungoides or 
Sezary syndrome. Strahlenther Onkol 2020;196:77- 84. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31591658 . 
78. Kudelka MR, Switchenko JM, Lechowicz MJ, et al. Maintenance 
therapy for cutaneous T- cell lymphoma after total skin electron irradiation: 
Evidence for improved overall survival with ultraviolet therapy. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2020;20:757- 767 e753. A vailable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32703750 . 
79. Elsayad K, Rolf D, Sunderkotter C, et al. Low -dose total skin electron 
beam therapy plus oral bexarotene maintenance therapy for cutaneous T -
cell lymphoma. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2022;20:279- 285. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34984837 . 
80. Gathers RC, Scherschun L, Malick F, et al. Narrowband UVB phototherapy for early -stage mycosis fungoides. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2002;47:191 -197. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12140464 . 
81. Dereure O, Picot E, Comte C, et al. Treatment of early stages of 
mycosis fungoides with narrowband ultraviolet B. A clinical, histological 
and molecular evaluation of results. Dermatology 2009;218:1 -6. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18832806.  
82. Gokdemir G, Barutcuoglu B, Sakiz D, Koslu A. Narrowband UVB 
phototherapy for early -stage mycosis fungoides: evaluation of clinical and 
histopathological changes. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2006;20:804-
809. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16898902 . 83. Drucker AM, Baibergenova A, Rosen CF, Shear NH. Narrowband UVB 
as an effective substitute for psoralen plus UVA: lessons from a psoralen 
shortage. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 2012;28:267- 268. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22971194.  
84. Elcin G, Duman N, Karahan S, et al. Long- term follow -up of early 
mycosis fungoides patients treated with narrowband ultraviolet B 
phototherapy. J Dermatolog Treat 2014;25:268- 273. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23030414 . 
85. Querfeld C, Rosen ST, Kuzel TM, et al. Long- term follow -up of patients 
with early -stage cutaneous T- cell lymphoma who achieved complete 
remission with psoralen plus UV -A monotherapy. Arch Dermatol 
2005;141:305 -311. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15781671 . 
86. Pavlotsky F, Hodak E, Ben Amitay D, Barzilai A. Role of bath psoralen 
plus ultraviolet A in early -stage mycosis fungoides. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2014;71:536 -541. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24836546 . 
87. Amitay -Laish I, Prag- Naveh H, Dalal A, et al. Treatment of early 
folliculotropic mycosis fungoides with special focus on psoralen plus 
ultraviolet A. Acta Derm Venereol 2018;98:951- 955. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30085321 . 
88. Vieyra -Garcia P, Fink -Puches R, Porkert S, et al. Evaluation of low -
dose, low -frequency oral psoralen- UV-A treatment with or without 
maintenance on early -stage mycosis fungoides: A randomized clinical trial. 
JAMA Dermatol 2019;155:538- 547. Available at : 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30892603 . 
89. Almohideb M, Walsh S, Walsh S, et al. Bath psoralen- ultraviolet A and 
narrowband ultraviolet B phototherapy as initial therapy for early -stage 
mycosis fungoides: A retrospective cohort of 267 cases at the University of 
Toronto. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2017;17:604- 612. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28711574 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-48 90. Nikolaou V, Sachlas A, Papadavid E, et al. Phototherapy as a first -line 
treatment for early -stage mycosis fungoides: The results of a large 
retrospective analysis. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 
2018;34:307 -313. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29533478 . 
91. Phan K, Ramachandran V, Fassihi H, Sebaratnam DF. Comparison of 
narrowband UV -B With psoralen- UV-A phototherapy for patients with 
early -stage mycosis fungoides: a systematic review and meta -analysis. 
JAMA Dermatol 2019;155:335- 341. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30698622 . 
92. Ahmad K, Rogers S, McNicholas PD, Collins P. Narrowband UVB and 
PUVA in the treatment of mycosis fungoides: a retrospective study. Acta 
Derm Venereol 2007;87:413- 417. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17721648 . 
93. Ponte P, Serrao V, Apetato M. Efficacy of narrowband UVB vs. PUVA 
in patients with early -stage mycosis fungoides. J Eur Acad Dermatol 
Venereol 2010;24:716- 721. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19929938 . 
94. Hearn RM, Kerr AC, Rahim KF, et al. Incidence of skin cancers in 
3867 patients treated with narrow -band ultraviolet B phototherapy. Br J 
Dermatol 2008;159:931- 935. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18834483 . 
95. Ahad T, Wang EY, Liu YA, et al. Incidence of skin cancers in patients with eczema treated with ultraviolet phototherapy. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2022;87:387 -389. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34864113 . 
96. Wang E, Ahad T, Liu YA, et al. Incidence and profile of skin cancers in 
patients following ultraviolet phototherapy without psoralens: A 
retrospective cohort study. J Am Acad Dermatol 2024;90:759 -766. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38070541.  
97. Diederen PV, van Weelden H, Sanders CJ, et al. Narrowband UVB 
and psoralen- UVA in the treatment of early -stage mycosis fungoides: a retrospective study. J Am Acad Dermatol 2003;48:215- 219. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12582391 . 
98. Olsen EA, Hodak E, Anderson T, et al. Guidelines for phototherapy of 
mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome: A consensus statement of the 
United States Cutaneous Lymphoma Consortium. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2016;74:27 -58. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26547257 . 
99. Khodadoust MS, Mou E, Kim YH. Integrating novel agents into the treatment of advanced mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome. Blood 
2023;141:695 -703. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36379025 . 
100. Prince HM, Kim YH, Horwitz SM, et al. Brentuximab vedotin or 
physician's choice in CD30- positive cutaneous T- cell lymphoma 
(ALCANZA): an international, open- label, randomised, phase 3, 
multicentre trial. Lancet 2017;390:555 -566. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28600132 . 
101. Horwitz SM, Scarisbrick JJ, Dummer R, et al. Randomized phase 3 ALCANZA study of brentuximab vedotin vs physician's choice in 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma: final data. Blood Adv 2021;5:5098- 5106. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34507350.  
102. Kim YH, Bagot M, Pinter -Brown L, et al. Mogamulizumab versus 
vorinostat in previously treated cutaneous T- cell lymphoma (MAVORIC): 
an international, open -label, randomised, controlled phase 3 trial. Lancet 
Oncol 2018;19:1192 -1204. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30100375 . 
103. Foss FM, Kim YH, Prince HM, et al. Efficacy and Safety of Denileukin 
Diftitox -Cxdl, an Improved Purity Formulation of Denileukin Diftitox, in 
Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Cutaneous T- Cell Lymphoma. J Clin 
Oncol 2024:JCO2401549. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39700456 . 
104. Duvic M, Martin AG, Kim Y, et al. Phase 2 and 3 clinical trial of oral 
bexarotene (Targretin capsules) for the treatment of refractory or PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-49 persistent early -stage cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. Arch Dermatol 
2001;137:581 -593. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11346336 . 
105. Duvic M, Hymes K, Heald P, et al. Bexarotene is effective and safe 
for treatment of refractory advanced -stage cutaneous T- cell lymphoma: 
multinational phase II -III trial results. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:2456 -2471. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11331325.  
106. Duvic M, Talpur R, Ni X, et al. Phase 2 trial of oral vorinostat 
(suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, SAHA) for refractory cutaneous T -cell 
lymphoma (CTCL). Blood 2007;109:31- 39. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16960145 . 
107. Olsen EA, Kim YH, Kuzel TM, et al. Phase IIb multicenter trial of vorinostat in patients with persistent, progressive, or treatment refractory 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3109- 3115. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17577020.  
108. Duvic M, Olsen EA, Breneman D, et al. Evaluation of the long- term 
tolerability and clinical benefit of vorinostat in patients with advanced 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma 2009;9:412- 416. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19951879.  
109. Piekarz RL, Frye R, Turner M, et al. Phase II multi -institutional trial of 
the histone deacetylase inhibitor romidepsin as monotherapy for patients with cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:5410 -5417. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19826128.  
110. Whittaker SJ, Demierre MF, Kim EJ, et al. Final results from a 
multicenter, international, pivotal study of romidepsin in refractory 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:4485- 4491. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20697094.  
111. Kim EJ, Kim YH, Rook AH, et al. Clinically significant responses achieved with romidepsin across disease compartments in patients with 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. Leuk Lymphoma 2015;56:2847 -2854. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25791237.  112. Horwitz SM, Kim YH, Foss F, et al. Identification of an active, well -
tolerated dose of pralatrexate in patients with relapsed or refractory cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. Blood 2012;119:4115- 4122. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22394596 . 
113. Foss F, Horwitz SM, Coiffier B, et al. Pralatrexate is an effective treatment for relapsed or refractory transformed mycosis fungoides: a 
subgroup efficacy analysis from the PROPEL study. Clin Lymphoma 
Myeloma Leuk 2012;12:238- 243. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22542448 . 
114. Talpur R, Thompson A, Gangar P, Duvic M. Pralatrexate alone or in combination with bexarotene: long- term tolerability in relapsed/refractory 
mycosis fungoides. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2014;14:297- 304. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24589156.  
115. Kennedy GA, Seymour JF, Wolf M, et al. Treatment of patients with advanced mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome with alemtuzumab. 
Eur J Haematol 2003;71:250- 256. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12950233 . 
116. Lundin J, Hagberg H, Repp R, et al. Phase 2 study of alemtuzumab 
(anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody) in patients with advanced mycosis 
fungoides/Sezary syndrome. Blood 2003;101:4267- 4272. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12543862 . 
117. Bernengo MG, Quaglino P, Comessatti A, et al. Low -dose intermittent 
alemtuzumab in the treatment of Sezary syndrome: clinical and 
immunologic findings in 14 patients. Haematologica 2007;92:784- 794. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17550851.  
118. Alinari L, Geskin L, Grady T, et al. Subcutaneous alemtuzumab for 
Sezary Syndrome in the very elderly. Leuk Res 2008;32:1299 -1303. 
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18096224.  
119. Querfeld C, Mehta N, Rosen ST, et al. Alemtuzumab for relapsed and refractory erythrodermic cutaneous T -cell lymphoma: a single institution 
experience from the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center. Leuk PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-50 Lymphoma 2009;50:1969- 1976. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19860617 . 
120. de Masson A, Guitera P, Brice P, et al. Long -term efficacy and safety 
of alemtuzumab in advanced primary cutaneous T- cell lymphomas. Br J 
Dermatol 2014;170:720- 724. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24438061 . 
121. Khodadoust MS, Rook AH, Porcu P, et al. Pembrolizumab in 
relapsed and refractory mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome: A 
multicenter phase II study. J Clin Oncol 2020;38:20- 28. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31532724 . 
122. Olsen EA. Interferon in the treatment of cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. 
Dermatol Ther 2003;16:311- 321. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14686974 . 
123. Kaplan EH, Rosen ST, Norris DB, et al. Phase II study of 
recombinant human interferon gamma for treatment of cutaneous T- cell 
lymphoma. J Natl Cancer Inst 1990;82:208- 212. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2104937 . 
124. Zackheim HS, Kashani -Sabet M, McMillan A. Low -dose methotrexate 
to treat mycosis fungoides: a retrospective study in 69 patients. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2003;49:873- 878. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14576667 . 
125. Nikolaou V, Panou E, Tsimpidakis A, et al. Effectiveness and safety 
of methotrexate in the treatment of mycosis fungoides: Real -world data 
from a multicentre study. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2024. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39297278.  
126. Schiller M, Tsianakas A, Sterry W, et al. Dose- escalation study 
evaluating pegylated interferon alpha- 2a in patients with cutaneous T- cell 
lymphoma. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2017;31:1841- 1847. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28557110.  
127. Patsatsi A, Papadavid E, Kyriakou A, et al. The use of pegylated 
interferon a -2a in a cohort of Greek patients with mycosis fungoides. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2022;36:e291- e293. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34753217 . 
128. Osman S, Chia JC, Street L, Hardin J. Transitioning to pegylated 
interferon for the treatment of cutaneous T- cell lymphoma: Meeting the 
challenge of therapy discontinuation and a proposed algorithm. Dermatologic Therapy 2023;2023:7171937. Available at : 
https://doi.org/10.1155/2023/7171937.  
129. Gosmann J, Stadler R, Quint KD, et al. Use of Pegylated Interferon Alpha- 2a in Cutaneous T -cell Lymphoma: A Retrospective Case 
Collection. Acta Derm Venereol 2023;103:adv10306. Available at:  
130. Hansen -Abeck I, Geidel G, Abeck F, et al. Pegylated interferon-
alpha2a in cutaneous T- cell lymphoma -  a multicenter retrospective data 
analysis with 70 patients. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2024;22:1489 -1497. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39358932.  
131. Mitsunaga K, Bagot M, Ram -Wolff C, et al. Real -world study of 
pegylated interferon alpha- 2a to treat mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome 
using time to next treatment as a measure of clinical benefit: an EORTC CLTG study. Br J Dermatol 2024;191:419- 427. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38596857 . 
132. McGirt LY, Thoburn C, Hess A, Vonderheid EC. Predictors of response to extracorporeal photopheresis in advanced mycosis fungoides 
and Sezary syndrome. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 
2010;26:182 -191. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20626820 . 
133. Quaglino P, Knobler R, Fierro MT, et al. Extracorporeal photopheresis for the treatment of erythrodermic cutaneous T -cell 
lymphoma: a single center clinical experience with long- term follow- up 
data and a brief overview of the literature. Int J Dermatol 2013;52:1308 -
1318. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23786842 . 
134. Knobler R, Arenberger P, Arun A, et al. European dermatology forum 
- updated guidelines on the use of extracorporeal photopheresis 2020 - PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-51 part 1. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2020;34:2693- 2716. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33025659 . 
135. Zinzani PL, Baliva G, Magagnoli M, et al. Gemcitabine treatment in 
pretreated cutaneous T -cell lymphoma: experience in 44 patients. J Clin 
Oncol 2000;18:2603 -2606. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10893292 . 
136. Marchi E, Alinari L, Tani M, et al. Gemcitabine as frontline treatment 
for cutaneous T- cell lymphoma: phase II study of 32 patients. Cancer 
2005;104:2437 -2441. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16216001 . 
137. Duvic M, Talpur R, Wen S, et al. Phase II evaluation of gemcitabine 
monotherapy for cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma 
2006;7:51 -58. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16879770 . 
138. Jidar K, Ingen -Housz -Oro S, Beylot -Barry M, et al. Gemcitabine 
treatment in cutaneous T -cell lymphoma: a multicentre study of 23 cases. 
Br J Dermatol 2009;161:660- 663. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19438862 . 
139. Pellegrini C, Stefoni V, Casadei B, et al. Long- term outcome of 
patients with advanced -stage cutaneous T cell lymphoma treated with 
gemcitabine. Ann Hematol 2014;93:1853 -1857. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24908331 . 
140. Blazejak C, Stranzenbach R, Gosman J, et al. Clinical outcomes of advanced- stage cutaneous lymphoma under low -dose gemcitabine 
treatment: Real -life data from the German Cutaneous Lymphoma 
Network. Dermatology 2022;238:498 -506. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34474414 . 
141. Di Raimondo C, Vaccarini S, Nunzi A, et al. Continuous low -dose 
gemcitabine in primary cutaneous T cell lymphoma: A retrospective study. Dermatol Ther 2022;35:e15482. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35373414 . 142. Weiner D, Ly A, Talluru S, et al. Efficacy of single- agent 
chemotherapy with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or gemcitabine in a 
diverse cohort of patients with recalcitrant cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. Br 
J Dermatol 2024;190:436- 438. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37655919 . 
143. Pulini S, Rupoli S, Goteri G, et al. Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in 
the treatment of primary cutaneous T -cell lymphomas. Haematologica 
2007;92:686 -689. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17488695 . 
144. Quereux G, Marques S, Nguyen JM, et al. Prospective multicenter 
study of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin treatment in patients with 
advanced or refractory mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome. Arch 
Dermatol 2008;144:727- 733. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18559761 . 
145. Dummer R, Quaglino P, Becker JC, et al. Prospective international multicenter phase II trial of intravenous pegylated liposomal doxorubicin 
monochemotherapy in patients with stage IIB, IVA, or IVB advanced 
mycosis fungoides: final results from EORTC 21012. J Clin Oncol 
2012;30:4091 -4097. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23045580 . 
146. Falkenhain- Lopez D, Fulgencio- Barbarin J, Puerta- Pena M, et al. 
Single -centre experience of using pegylated liposomal doxorubicin as 
maintenance treatment in mycosis fungoides. Br J Dermatol 
2022;186:363 -365. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34528240 . 
147. Falkenhain- Lopez D, Puerta- Pena M, Fulgencio- Barbarin J, et al. 
Real-life experience of using pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in primary 
cutaneous T -cell lymphomas. Clin Exp Dermatol 2022;47:1712 -1715. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35426448.  
148. Hughes CF, Khot A, McCormack C, et al. Lack of durable disease control with chemotherapy for mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome: a 
comparative study of systemic therapy. Blood 2015;125:71 -81. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25336628.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-52 149. Quaglino P, Maule M, Prince HM, et al. Global patterns of care in 
advanced stage mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome: a multicenter 
retrospective follow -up study from the Cutaneous Lymphoma International 
Consortium. Ann Oncol 2017;28:2517 -2525. Availabl e at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28961843 . 
150. Izu- Belloso R, Gainza- Apraiz I, Ortiz -Romero P, et al. Experience 
With Bexarotene to Treat Cutaneous T- Cell Lymphomas: A Study of the 
Spanish Working Group of Cutaneous Lymphomas. Actas Dermosifiliogr 
2024;115:547 -554. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38395224 . 
151. Whittaker S, Ortiz P, Dummer R, et al. Efficacy and safety of 
bexarotene combined with psoralen- ultraviolet A (PUVA) compared with 
PUVA treatment alone in stage IB -IIA mycosis fungoides: final results from 
the EORTC Cutaneous Lymphoma Task Force phase III randomized 
clinical trial (NCT00056056). Br J Dermatol 2012;167:678- 687. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22924950.  
152. Duvic M, Apisarnthanarax N, Cohen DS, et al. Analysis of long- term 
outcomes of combined modality therapy for cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. J 
Am Acad Dermatol 2003;49:35 -49. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12833006 . 
153. Straus DJ, Duvic M, Kuzel T, et al. Results of a phase II trial of oral 
bexarotene (Targretin) combined with interferon alfa- 2b (Intron -A) for 
patients with cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. Cancer 2007;109:1799- 1803. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17366595.  
154. Siakantaris MP, Tsirigotis P, Stavroyianni N, et al. Management of 
cutaneous T -Cell lymphoma patients with extracorporeal photopheresis. 
The Hellenic experience. Transfus Apher Sci 2012;46:189 -193. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22178592.  
155. Cheeley J, Sahn RE, DeLong LK, Parker SR. Acitretin for the 
treatment of cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2013;68:247 -254. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22917895 . 156. Amitay -Laish I, Reiter O, Prag -Naveh H, et al. Retinoic acid receptor 
agonist as monotherapy for early -stage mycosis fungoides: does it work? 
J Dermatolog Treat 2019;30:258 -263. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29889596 . 
157. Nikolaou V, Patsatsi A, Sidiropoulou P, et al. Monotherapy and 
combination therapy with acitretin for mycosis fungoides: results of a 
retrospective, multicentre study. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 
2020;34:2534 -2540. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32364303 . 
158. Kim YH, Prince HM, Whittaker S, et al. Response to brentuximab vedotin versus physician's choice by CD30 expression and large cell 
transformation status in patients with mycosis fungoides: An ALCANZA 
sub-analysis. Eur J Cancer 2021;148:411 -421. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33794441 . 
159. Duvic M, Tetzlaff MT, Gangar P, et al. Results of a phase II trial of brentuximab vedotin for CD30+ cutaneous T -cell lymphoma and 
lymphomatoid papulosis. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:3759- 3765. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26261247 . 
160. Kim YH, Tavallaee M, Sundram U, et al. Phase II investigator -
initiated study of brentuximab vedotin in mycosis fungoides and Sezary 
syndrome with variable CD30 expression level: A multi -institution 
collaborative project. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:3750 -3758. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26195720 . 
161. Papadavid E, Kapniari E, Pappa V, et al. Multicentric EORTC 
retrospective study shows efficacy of brentuximab vedotin in patients who 
have mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome with variable CD30 
positivity. Br J Dermatol 2021;185:1035 -1044. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34137025 . 
162. Barta SK, Liu N, DerSarkissian M, et al. Real -world treatment 
patterns and clinical outcomes with brentuximab vedotin or other standard therapies in patients with previously treated cutaneous T- cell lymphoma in 
the United States. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma  Leuk 2024;24:e21- e32 e24. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37919137.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-53 163. Dummer R, Prince HM, Whittaker S, et al. Patient -reported quality of 
life in patients with relapsed/refractory cutaneous T- cell lymphoma: 
Results from the randomised phase III ALCANZA study. Eur J Cancer 
2020;133:120 -130. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32502876 . 
164. Lewis DJ, Haun PL, Samimi SS, et al. Brentuximab vedotin for 
relapsed or refractory Sezary syndrome. JAMA Dermatol 2021;157:317 -
321. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33377934 . 
165. Horwitz S, Zinzani PL, Bagot M, et al. Lack of impact of type and extent of prior therapy on outcomes of mogamulizumab therapy in patients 
with cutaneous T cell lymphoma in the MAVORIC trial. Leuk Lymphoma 
2021;62:3109 -3118. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34304674 . 
166. Porcu P, Hudgens S, Horwitz S, et al. Quality of life effect of the anti -
CCR4 monoclonal antibody mogamulizumab versus vorinostat in patients 
with cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 
2021;21:97 -105. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33158772 . 
167. Cowan RA, Scarisbrick JJ, Zinzani PL, et al. Efficacy and safety of 
mogamulizumab by patient baseline blood tumour burden: a post hoc 
analysis of the MAVORIC trial. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 
2021;35:2225 -2238. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34273208 . 
168. Beylot -Barry M, Booken N, Weishaupt C, et al. Impact of blood 
involvement on efficacy and time to response with mogamulizumab in 
mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 
2023;37:311 -316. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35993803 . 
169. Bagot M, Dalle S, Sokol L, et al. Long -term disease control and 
safety with the anti -CCR4 antibody mogamulizumab: Post -hoc analyses 
from the MAVORIC trial of patients with previously treated cutaneous T -
cell lymphoma. Dermatol Ther 2022;35:e15634. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35695215 . 170. Hirotsu KE, Neal TM, Khodadoust MS, et al. Clinical characterization 
of mogamulizumab- associated rash during treatment of mycosis fungoides 
or Sezary syndrome. JAMA Dermatol 2021;157:700- 707. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33881447 . 
171. Trum NA, Zain J, Martinez XU, et al. Mogamulizumab efficacy is 
underscored by its associated rash that mimics cutaneous T -cell 
lymphoma: a retrospective single- centre case series. Br J Dermatol 
2022;186:153 -166. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34427917 . 
172. Wang JY, Hirotsu KE, Neal TM, et al. Histopathologic characterization of mogamulizumab- associated rash. Am J Surg Pathol 
2020;44:1666 -1676. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32976123 . 
173. Wang J, de Masson A, Ram -Wolff C, et al. Granulomatous rash 
associated with mogamulizumab mimicking mycosis fungoides: a case 
series. Eur J Cancer 2021;156 Suppl 1:S49. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34649659 . 
174. Chen L, Carson KR, Staser KW, et al. Mogamulizumab- associated 
cutaneous granulomatous drug eruption mimicking mycosis fungoides but 
possibly indicating durable clinical response. JAMA Dermatol 
2019;155:968 -971. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31141114 . 
175. Musiek ACM, Rieger KE, Bagot M, et al. Dermatologic events associated with the anti -CCR4 antibody mogamulizumab: characterization 
and management. Dermatol Ther (Heidelb) 2022;12:29- 40. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34816383 . 
176. Avallone G, Roccuzzo G, Pileri A, et al. Clinicopathological definition, 
management and prognostic value of mogamulizumab- associated rash 
and other cutaneous events: A systematic review. J Eur Acad Dermatol 
Venereol 2024;38:1738- 1748. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38279614 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-54 177. Prince HM, Duvic M, Martin A, et al. Phase III placebo- controlled trial 
of denileukin diftitox for patients with cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. J Clin 
Oncol 2010;28:1870 -1877. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20212249 . 
178. Duvic M, Geskin L, Prince HM. Duration of response in cutaneous T-
cell lymphoma patients treated with denileukin diftitox: results from 3 
phase III studies. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2013;13:377 -384. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23770157.  
179. Bisaccia E, Gonzalez J, Palangio M, et al. Extracorporeal 
photochemotherapy alone or with adjuvant therapy in the treatment of 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma: a 9 -year retrospective study at a single 
institution. J Am Acad Dermatol 2000;43:263 -271. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10906649 . 
180. Zic JA. The treatment of cutaneous T- cell lymphoma with 
photopheresis. Dermatol Ther 2003;16:337- 346. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14686977 . 
181. Arulogun S, Prince HM, Gambell P, et al. Extracorporeal 
photopheresis for the treatment of Sezary syndrome using a novel 
treatment protocol. J Am Acad Dermatol 2008;59:589- 595. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18656282 . 
182. Talpur R, Demierre MF, Geskin L, et al. Multicenter photopheresis 
intervention trial in early -stage mycosis fungoides. Clin Lymphoma 
Myeloma Leuk 2011;11:219- 227. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21575927 . 
183. Knobler R, Duvic M, Querfeld C, et al. Long -term follow -up and 
survival of cutaneous T -cell lymphoma patients treated with extracorporeal 
photopheresis. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 2012;28:250- 257. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22971190.  
184. Knobler R, Berlin G, Calzavara- Pinton P, et al. Guidelines on the use 
of extracorporeal photopheresis. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2014;28 
Suppl 1:1- 37. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24354653 . 185. Atilla E, Atilla PA, Bozdag SC, et al. Extracorporeal photochemotherapy in mycosis fungoides. Transfus Clin Biol 2017;24:454 -
457. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28578935 . 
186. Gao C, McCormack C, van der Weyden C, et al. Prolonged survival 
with the early use of a novel extracorporeal photopheresis regimen in 
patients with Sezary syndrome. Blood 2019;134:1346- 1350. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31467061 . 
187. Girardi M, Carlson K, Huang X, et al. Chart review study of real -world 
clinical outcomes in patients with cutaneous T -cell lymphoma treated with 
extracorporeal photopheresis in the US in 2017- 2019. J Dermatolog Treat 
2024;35:2360568. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38852942 . 
188. Stevens SR, Baron ED, Masten S, Cooper KD. Circulating 
CD4+CD7 - lymphocyte burden and rapidity of response: predictors of 
outcome in the treatment of Sezary syndrome and erythrodermic mycosis fungoides with extracorporeal photopheresis. Arch Dermatol 
2002;138:1347 -1350. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12374541 . 
189. Stadler R, Otte HG, Luger T, et al. Prospective randomized 
multicenter clinical trial on the use of interferon - 2a plus acitretin versus 
interferon -2a plus PUVA in patients with cutaneous T- cell lymphoma 
stages I and II. Blood 1998;92:3578 -3581. Avai lable at: 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9808550 . 
190. Chiarion- Sileni V, Bononi A, Fornasa CV, et al. Phase II trial of 
interferon- alpha- 2a plus psolaren with ultraviolet light A in patients with 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. Cancer 2002;95:569 -575. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12209749 . 
191. Rupoli S, Goteri G, Pulini S, et al. Long -term experience with low -
dose interferon -alpha and PUVA in the management of early mycosis 
fungoides. Eur J Haematol 2005;75:136 -145. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16000130 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-55 192. Olisova OY, Megna M, Grekova EV, et al. PUVA and interferon 
alpha2b combined therapy for patients with mycosis fungoides at different 
stages of the disease: a seven- year retrospective study in Russia. J Eur 
Acad Dermatol Venereol 2019;33:e72- e74. Avai lable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30102807 . 
193. Rupoli S, Canafoglia L, Goteri G, et al. Results of a prospective 
phase II trial with oral low -dose bexarotene plus photochemotherapy 
(PUVA) in refractory and/or relapsed patients with mycosis fungoides. Eur J Dermatol 2016;26:13- 20. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26678311 . 
194. Fujimura T, Sato Y, Tanita K, et al. Case series of cutaneous T -cell 
lymphomas treated with bexarotene -based therapy. J Dermatol 
2020;47:636 -640. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32207181 . 
195. Morita A, Tateishi C, Muramatsu S, et al. Efficacy and safety of bexarotene combined with photo(chemo)therapy for cutaneous T -cell 
lymphoma. J Dermatol 2020;47:443 -451. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32189402 . 
196. Wilson LD, Jones GW, Kim D, et al. Experience with total skin 
electron beam therapy in combination with extracorporeal photopheresis in 
the management of patients with erythrodermic (T4) mycosis fungoides. J 
Am Acad Dermatol 2000;43:54 -60. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10863224 . 
197. Atzmony L, Amitay -Laish I, Gurion R, et al. Erythrodermic mycosis 
fungoides and Sezary syndrome treated with extracorporeal photopheresis 
as part of a multimodality regimen: A single- centre experience. J Eur Acad 
Dermatol Venereol 2015;29:2382- 2389. A vailable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26299651 . 
198. Akilov OE, Grant C, Frye R, et al. Low -dose electron beam radiation 
and romidepsin therapy for symptomatic cutaneous T- cell lymphoma 
lesions. Br J Dermatol 2012;167:194 -197. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22372971 . 199. Jothishankar B, Almazan T, Kim Y, et al. Romidepsin and total skin electron beam therapy in advanced stage mycosis fungoides and Sezary 
syndrome. Br J Haematol 2019;186:377 -379. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30937886 . 
200. Durgin JS, Jariwala NN, Wysocka M, et al. Low -Dose Total Skin 
Electron Beam Therapy as Part of a Multimodality Regimen for Treatment 
of Sezary Syndrome: Clinical, Immunologic, and Molecular Analysis. 
JAMA Dermatol 2021;157:90- 95. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33112366 . 
201. Fong S, Hong EK, Khodadoust MS, et al. Low -Dose Total Skin 
Electron Beam Therapy Combined With Mogamulizumab for Refractory 
Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome. Adv Radiat Oncol 
2021;6:100629. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33748543 . 
202. Wu SY, Fang PQ, Wang EB, et al. Safety of Concurrent Radiation 
Therapy With Brentuximab Vedotin in the Treatment of Lymphoma. Adv 
Radiat Oncol 2023;8:101279. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37448588 . 
203. Wollina U, Looks A, Meyer J, et al. Treatment of stage II cutaneous 
T-cell lymphoma with interferon alfa -2a and extracorporeal 
photochemotherapy: a prospective controlled trial. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2001;44:253 -260. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11174383 . 
204. Suchin KR, Cucchiara AJ, Gottleib SL, et al. Treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma with combined immunomodulatory therapy: a 14 -year 
experience at a single institution. Arch Dermatol 2002;138:1054 -1060. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12164743.  
205. Raphael BA, Shin DB, Suchin KR, et al. High clinical response rate of 
Sezary syndrome to immunomodulatory therapies: prognostic markers of 
response. Arch Dermatol 2011;147:1410- 1415. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21844430 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-56 206. Straus DJ, Duvic M, Horwitz SM, et al. Final results of phase II trial of 
doxorubicin HCl liposome injection followed by bexarotene in advanced 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. Ann Oncol 2014;25:206- 210. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24285015 . 
207. Ninosu N, Melchers S, Kappenstein M, et al. Mogamulizumab combined with extracorporeal photopheresis as a novel therapy in 
erythrodermic cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. Cancers (Basel) 2023;16:141. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38201568.  
208. Campbell BA, Dobos G, Haider Z, et al. International study of 
treatment efficacy in SS shows superiority of combination therapy and 
heterogeneity of treatment strategies. Blood Adv 2023;7:6639 -6647. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37648672.  
209. Olsen EA, Whittaker S, Kim YH, et al. Clinical end points and 
response criteria in mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome: a 
consensus statement of the International Society for Cutaneous 
Lymphomas, the United States Cutaneous Lymphoma Consortium, and 
the Cutaneous Lymphoma Task Force of the European Organisation for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:2598 -2607. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21576639.  
210. van Doorn R, Scheffer E, Willemze R. Follicular mycosis fungoides, a 
distinct disease entity with or without associated follicular mucinosis: a 
clinicopathologic and follow -up study of 51 patients. Arch Dermatol 
2002;138:191 -198. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11843638 . 
211. Gerami P, Rosen S, Kuzel T, et al. Folliculotropic mycosis fungoides: 
an aggressive variant of cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. Arch Dermatol 
2008;144:738 -746. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18559762 . 
212. Lehman JS, Cook -Norris RH, Weed BR, et al. Folliculotropic mycosis 
fungoides: single- center study and systematic review. Arch Dermatol 
2010;146:607 -613. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20566923 . 213. Wieser I, Wang C, Alberti -Violetti S, et al. Clinical characteristics, risk 
factors and long- term outcome of 114 patients with folliculotropic mycosis 
fungoides. Arch Dermatol Res 2017;309:453- 459. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28516243 . 
214. Hodak E, Amitay -Laish I, Atzmony L, et al. New insights into 
folliculotropic mycosis fungoides (FMF): A single- center experience. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 2016;75:347- 355. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27245278 . 
215. van Santen S, Roach RE, van Doorn R, et al. Clinical staging and 
prognostic factors in folliculotropic mycosis fungoides. JAMA Dermatol 
2016;152:992 -1000. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27276223 . 
216. Charli -Joseph Y, Kashani -Sabet M, McCalmont TH, et al. Association 
of a proposed new staging system for folliculotropic mycosis fungoides with prognostic variables in a US cohort. JAMA Dermatol 2021;157:157 -
165. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33295938 . 
217. van Santen S, van Doorn R, Neelis KJ, et al. Recommendations for 
treatment in folliculotropic mycosis fungoides: report of the Dutch 
Cutaneous Lymphoma Group. Br J Dermatol 2017;177:223 -228. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28132406.  
218. Lansigan F, Horwitz SM, Pinter -Brown LC, et al. Outcomes of 
patients with transformed mycosis fungoides: Analysis from a prospective multicenter US cohort study. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2020;20:744 -
748. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32532611 . 
219. de Masson A, Beylot -Barry M, Bouaziz JD, et al. Allogeneic stem cell 
transplantation for advanced cutaneous T -cell lymphomas: a study from 
the French Society of Bone Marrow Transplantation and French Study 
Group on Cutaneous Lymphomas. Haematologica 2014;99:527- 534. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24213148.  
220. Duarte RF, Boumendil A, Onida F, et al. Long- term outcome of 
allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for patients with mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome: a European society for blood and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-57 marrow transplantation lymphoma working party extended analysis. J Clin 
Oncol 2014;32:3347 -3348. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25154828 . 
221. Lechowicz MJ, Lazarus HM, Carreras J, et al. Allogeneic 
hematopoietic cell transplantation for mycosis fungoides and Sezary 
syndrome. Bone Marrow Transplant 2014;49:1360- 1365. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25068422 . 
222. Hosing C, Bassett R, Dabaja B, et al. Allogeneic stem -cell 
transplantation in patients with cutaneous lymphoma: updated results from 
a single institution. Ann Oncol 2015;26:2490 -2495. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26416896 . 
223. Shiratori S, Fujimoto K, Nishimura M, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation following reduced- intensity conditioning for 
mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome. Hematol Oncol 2016;34:9 -16. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25312300.  
224. Domingo- Domenech E, Duarte RF, Boumedil A, et al. Allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for advanced mycosis fungoides 
and Sezary syndrome. An updated experience of the Lymphoma Working 
Party of the European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. 
Bone Marrow Transplant 2021;56:1391- 1401. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33420392 . 
225. Cengiz Seval G, Sahin U, Bozdag SC, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation for heavily pretreated patients with mycosis 
fungoides and Sezary syndrome. Dermatol Ther 2022;35:e15447. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35289037.  
226. Elliott J, Ahlawat S, Prince HM, et al. Long- term outcomes for 
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in Sezary syndrome and mycosis 
fungoides. Bone Marrow Transplant 2022;57:1724 -1726. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36028756 . 
227. Johnson WT, Mukherji R, Kartan S, et al. Allogeneic hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation in advanced stage mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome: a concise review. Chin Clin Oncol 2019;8:12. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30525754 . 
228. Iqbal M, Reljic T, Ayala E, et al. Efficacy of allogeneic hematopoietic 
cell transplantation in cutaneous T cell lymphoma: Results of a systematic 
review and meta -analysis. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 2020;26:76 -82. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31494227.  
229. de Masson A, Beylot -Barry M, Ram -Wolff C, et al. Allogeneic 
transplantation in advanced cutaneous T -cell lymphomas (CUTALLO): a 
propensity score matched controlled prospective study. Lancet 
2023;401:1941 -1950. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37105210 . 
230. Duvic M, Donato M, Dabaja B, et al. Total skin electron beam and 
non-myeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem -cell transplantation in 
advanced mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:2365 -2372. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20351328 . 
231. Isufi I, Seropian S, Gowda L, et al. Outcomes for allogeneic stem cell transplantation in refractory mycosis fungoides and primary cutaneous 
gamma Delta T cell lymphomas. Leuk Lymphoma 2020;61:2955- 2961. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32643494.  
232. Thompson LL, Pan CX, Chang MS, et al. Alemtuzumab, total skin 
electron beam, and non- myeloablative allogeneic haematopoietic stem -
cell transplantation in advanced sezary syndrome: a retrospective cohort study. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2021;35:e373- e375. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33545747 . 
233. Weng WK, Arai S, Rezvani A, et al. Nonmyeloablative allogeneic transplantation achieves clinical and molecular remission in cutaneous T -
cell lymphoma. Blood Adv 2020;4:4474- 4482. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32941647 . 
234. Morris SL, Thomas BR, Palanicawandar R, et al. Long term 
outcomes of nonmyeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation with 
TSEB TLI and ATG for Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome. Bone PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-58 Marrow Transplant 2024;59:874- 879. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38472408 . 
235. Goyal A, O'Leary D, Dabaja B, et al. ASTCT and USCLC Clinical 
Practice Recommendations for Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant in 
Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome. Transplant Cell Ther 
2024;30:1047 -1060. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39222792 . 
236. Mori T, Shiratori S, Suzumiya J, et al. Outcome of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for mycosis fungoides and Sezary 
syndrome. Hematol Oncol 2020;38:266 -271. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32011008 . 
237. Duarte RF, Schmitz N, Servitje O, Sureda A. Haematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation for patients with primary cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. 
Bone Marrow Transplant 2008;41:597- 604. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18176611 . 
238. Demierre MF, Gan S, Jones J, Miller DR. Significant impact of 
cutaneous T -cell lymphoma on patients' quality of life: results of a 2005 
National Cutaneous Lymphoma Foundation Survey. Cancer 2006;107:2504 -2511. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17048251 . 
239. Sampogna F, Frontani M, Baliva G, et al. Quality of life and 
psychological distress in patients with cutaneous lymphoma. Br J 
Dermatol 2009;160:815- 822. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19120325 . 
240. Meyer N, Paul C, Misery L. Pruritus in cutaneous T- cell lymphomas: 
frequent, often severe and difficult to treat. Acta Derm Venereol 
2010;90:12 -17. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20107719 . 
241. Trautinger F, Knobler R, Willemze R, et al. EORTC consensus 
recommendations for the treatment of mycosis fungoides/Sezary 
syndrome. Eur J Cancer 2006;42:1014 -1030. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16574401 . 242. Eschler DC, Klein PA. An evidence -based review of the efficacy of 
topical antihistamines in the relief of pruritus. J Drugs Dermatol 
2010;9:992 -997. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20684150 . 
243. Matsuda KM, Sharma D, Schonfeld AR, Kwatra SG. Gabapentin and pregabalin for the treatment of chronic pruritus. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2016;75:619 -625.e6. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27206757 . 
244. Duval A, Dubertret L. Aprepitant as an antipruritic agent? N Engl J 
Med 2009;361:1415 -1416. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19797294 . 
245. Booken N, Heck M, Nicolay JP, et al. Oral aprepitant in the therapy of 
refractory pruritus in erythrodermic cutaneous T -cell lymphoma. Br J 
Dermatol 2011;164:665- 667. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21039410 . 
246. Jimenez Gallo D, Albarran Planelles C, Linares Barrios M, et al. 
Treatment of pruritus in early -stage hypopigmented mycosis fungoides 
with aprepitant. Dermatol Ther 2014;27:178- 182. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24517320 . 
247. Demierre MF, Taverna J. Mirtazapine and gabapentin for reducing 
pruritus in cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. J Am Acad Dermatol 2006;55:543 -
544. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16908377 . 
248. Stander S, Bockenholt B, Schurmeyer -Horst F, et al. Treatment of 
chronic pruritus with the selective serotonin re- uptake inhibitors paroxetine 
and fluvoxamine: results of an open- labelled, two- arm proof -of-concept 
study. Acta Derm Venereol 2009;89:45 -51. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19197541 . 
249. Bigliardi PL, Stammer H, Jost G, et al. Treatment of pruritus with 
topically applied opiate receptor antagonist. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2007;56:979 -988. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17320241 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-59 250. Axelrod PI, Lorber B, Vonderheid EC. Infections complicating 
mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome. JAMA 1992;267:1354 -1358. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1740857.  
251. Lindahl LM, Willerslev -Olsen A, Gjerdrum LMR, et al. Antibiotics 
inhibit tumor and disease activity in cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. Blood 
2019;134:1072 -1083. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31331920 . 
252. Kim YH, Willemze R, Pimpinelli N, et al. TNM classification system 
for primary cutaneous lymphomas other than mycosis fungoides and 
Sezary syndrome: a proposal of the International Society for Cutaneous 
Lymphomas (ISCL) and the Cutaneous Lymphoma Task  Force of the 
European Organization of Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). 
Blood 2007;110:479 -484. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17339420 . 
253. Kempf W, Pfaltz K, Vermeer MH, et al. EORTC, ISCL, and USCLC consensus recommendations for the treatment of primary cutaneous 
CD30 -positive lymphoproliferative disorders: lymphomatoid papulosis and 
primary cutaneous anaplastic large -cell lymphoma. Blo od 2011;118:4024 -
4035. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21841159 . 
254. Paulli M, Berti E, Rosso R, et al. CD30/Ki -1-positive 
lymphoproliferative disorders of the skin--clinicopathologic correlation and 
statistical analysis of 86 cases: a multicentric study from the European 
Organization for Research and Treatment of Canc er Cutaneous 
Lymphoma Project Group. J Clin Oncol 1995;13:1343- 1354. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7751878 . 
255. Vergier B, Beylot -Barry M, Pulford K, et al. Statistical evaluation of 
diagnostic and prognostic features of CD30+ cutaneous 
lymphoproliferative disorders: a clinicopathologic study of 65 cases. Am J 
Surg Pathol 1998;22:1192- 1202. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9777981 . 
256. Beljaards RC, Kaudewitz P, Berti E, et al. Primary cutaneous CD30-
positive large cell lymphoma: definition of a new type of cutaneous 
lymphoma with a favorable prognosis. A European Multicenter Study of 47 patients. Cancer 1993;71:2097- 2104. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8382999 . 
257. Bekkenk MW, Geelen FA, van Voorst Vader PC, et al. Primary and 
secondary cutaneous CD30(+) lymphoproliferative disorders: a report from 
the Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma Group on the long- term follow- up data of 
219 patients and guidelines for diagnosis and treatment. Blood 
2000;95:3653 -3661. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10845893 . 
258. Liu HL, Hoppe RT, Kohler S, et al. CD30+ cutaneous 
lymphoproliferative disorders: the Stanford experience in lymphomatoid 
papulosis and primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 2003;49:1049- 1058. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14639383 . 
259. Sarfraz H, Gentille C, Ensor J, et al. Primary cutaneous anaplastic large- cell lymphoma: a review of the SEER database from 2005 to 2016. 
Clin Exp Dermatol 2021;46:1420- 1426. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34081802 . 
260. Woo DK, Jones CR, Vanoli -Storz MN, et al. Prognostic factors in 
primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma: characterization of 
clinical subset with worse outcome. Arch Dermatol 2009;145:667 -674. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19528422.  
261. Benner MF, Willemze R. Applicability and prognostic value of the new 
TNM classification system in 135 patients with primary cutaneous 
anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Arch Dermatol 2009;145:1399 -1404. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20026848.  
262. Fernandez -de-Misa R, Hernandez -Machin B, Combalia A, et al. 
Prognostic factors in patients with primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell 
lymphoma: a multicentric, retrospective analysis of the Spanish Group of 
Cutaneous Lymphoma. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2020;34:762- 768. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31591786.  
263. Wang HH, Myers T, Lach LJ, et al. Increased risk of lymphoid and 
nonlymphoid malignancies in patients with lymphomatoid papulosis. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-60 Cancer 1999;86:1240 -1245. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10506709 . 
264. de Souza A, el -Azhary RA, Camilleri MJ, et al. In search of prognostic 
indicators for lymphomatoid papulosis: a retrospective study of 123 
patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 2012;66:928- 937. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21982062 . 
265. Nikolaou V, Papadavid E, Ekonomidi A, et al. Association of 
clinicopathological characteristics with secondary neoplastic 
lymphoproliferative disorders in patients with lymphomatoid papulosis. 
Leuk Lymphoma 2015;56:1303- 1307. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25242096 . 
266. Cordel N, Tressieres B, D'Incan M, et al. Frequency and risk factors 
for associated lymphomas in patients with lymphomatoid papulosis. 
Oncologist 2016;21:76- 83. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26668250 . 
267. Wieser I, Oh CW, Talpur R, Duvic M. Lymphomatoid papulosis: 
Treatment response and associated lymphomas in a study of 180 patients. 
J Am Acad Dermatol 2016;74:59 -67. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26518172 . 
268. AbuHilal M, Walsh S, Shear N. Associated hematolymphoid 
malignancies in patients with lymphomatoid papulosis: A Canadian 
retrospective study. J Cutan Med Surg 2017;21:507- 512. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28614957 . 
269. Eberle FC, Song JY, Xi L, et al. Nodal involvement by cutaneous 
CD30 -positive T- cell lymphoma mimicking classical Hodgkin lymphoma. 
Am J Surg Pathol 2012;36:716- 725. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22367293 . 
270. DeCoteau JF, Butmarc JR, Kinney MC, Kadin ME. The t(2;5) 
chromosomal translocation is not a common feature of primary cutaneous 
CD30+ lymphoproliferative disorders: comparison with anaplastic large-
cell lymphoma of nodal origin. Blood 1996;87:3437- 3441. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8605362 . 271. Melchers RC, Willemze R, van de Loo M, et al. Clinical, histologic, and molecular characteristics of anaplastic lymphoma kinase -positive 
primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Am J Surg Pathol 
2020;44:776 -781. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32412717 . 
272. Collins K, Gu J, Aung PP, et al. Is immunohistochemical expression 
of GATA3 helpful in the differential diagnosis of transformed mycosis 
fungoides and primary cutaneous CD30- positive T cell lymphoproliferative 
disorders? Virchows Arch 2021;479:377- 383. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33604757 . 
273. Kempf W, Kutzner H, Cozzio A, et al. MUM1 expression in cutaneous 
CD30+ lymphoproliferative disorders: a valuable tool for the distinction 
between lymphomatoid papulosis and primary cutaneous anaplastic large-
cell lymphoma. Br J Dermatol 2008;158:1280- 1287. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18410414 . 
274. Fauconneau A, Pham -Ledard A, Cappellen D, et al. Assessment of 
diagnostic criteria between primary cutaneous anaplastic large- cell 
lymphoma and CD30- rich transformed mycosis fungoides; a study of 66 
cases. Br J Dermatol 2015;172:1547 -1554. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25645336 . 
275. Wada DA, Law ME, Hsi ED, et al. Specificity of IRF4 translocations 
for primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma: a multicenter study 
of 204 skin biopsies. Mod Pathol 2011;24:596 -605. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21169992 . 
276. Karai LJ, Kadin ME, Hsi ED, et al. Chromosomal rearrangements of 
6p25.3 define a new subtype of lymphomatoid papulosis. Am J Surg 
Pathol 2013;37:1173- 1181. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23648461 . 
277. Onaindia A, Montes -Moreno S, Rodriguez -Pinilla SM, et al. Primary 
cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphomas with 6p25.3 rearrangement 
exhibit particular histological features. Histopathology 2015;66:846- 855. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25131361.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-61 278. Benner MF, Willemze R. Bone marrow examination has limited value 
in the staging of patients with an anaplastic large cell lymphoma first 
presenting in the skin. Retrospective analysis of 107 patients. Br J 
Dermatol 2008;159:1148 -1151. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18782320 . 
279. Million L, Yi EJ, Wu F, et al. Radiation therapy for primary cutaneous 
anaplastic large cell lymphoma: An International Lymphoma Radiation 
Oncology Group multi -institutional experience. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol 
Phys 2016;95:1454- 1459. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27315663 . 
280. Melchers RC, Willemze R, Daniels LA, et al. Recommendations for 
the optimal radiation dose in patients with primary cutaneous anaplastic 
large cell lymphoma: a report of the Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma Group. 
Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2017;99:1279 -1285. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28958772 . 
281. Smith GL, Duvic M, Yehia ZA, et al. Effectiveness of low -dose 
radiation for primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Adv 
Radiat Oncol 2017;2:363 -369. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29114604 . 
282. Piccinno R, Damiani G, Rossi LC, Berti E. Radiotherapy of primary 
cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma: our experience in 30 cases. Int 
J Dermatol 2020;59:469- 473. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31916593 . 
283. Yu JB, McNiff JM, Lund MW, Wilson LD. Treatment of primary 
cutaneous CD30+ anaplastic large -cell lymphoma with radiation therapy. 
Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;70:1542 -1545. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18037577 . 
284. Booken N, Goerdt S, Klemke CD. Clinical spectrum of primary 
cutaneous CD30 -positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma: an analysis of 
the Mannheim Cutaneous Lymphoma Registry. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 
2012;10:331 -339. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22525148 . 285. Huang BS, Chen WY, Wang CW, et al. Relapse pattern and 
treatment outcome of curative radiotherapy for primary cutaneous CD30+ 
anaplastic large- cell lymphoma: A retrospective cohort study. Acta Derm 
Venereol 2016;96:394- 395. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26463467 . 
286. Hapgood G, Pickles T, Sehn LH, et al. Outcome of primary 
cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma: a 20 -year British Columbia 
Cancer Agency experience. Br J Haematol 2017;176:234- 240. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27766622.  
287. Melchers RC, Willemze R, Bekkenk MW, et al. Evaluation of 
treatment results in multifocal primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell 
lymphoma: report of the Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma Group. Br J 
Dermatol 2018;179:724- 731. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29494757 . 
288. Horwitz S, O'Connor OA, Pro B, et al. Brentuximab vedotin with chemotherapy for CD30- positive peripheral T- cell lymphoma (ECHELON-
2): a global, double- blind, randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2019;393:229 -
240. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30522922 . 
289. Bruijn MS, Horvath B, van Voorst Vader PC, et al. Recommendations 
for treatment of lymphomatoid papulosis with methotrexate: a report from 
the Dutch Cutaneous Lymphoma Group. Br J Dermatol 2015;173:1319 -
1322. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25998985 . 
290. Park JB, Yang MH, Kwon DI, et al. Low -dose methotrexate treatment 
for solitary or localized primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma: 
A long- term follow- up study. Acta Derm Venereol 2020;100:adv00069. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31996929.  
291. Wyss M, Dummer R, Dommann SN, et al. Lymphomatoid papulosis --
treatment with recombinant interferon alfa- 2a and etretinate. Dermatology 
1995;190:288 -291. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7655107 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-62 292. Krathen RA, Ward S, Duvic M. Bexarotene is a new treatment option 
for lymphomatoid papulosis. Dermatology 2003;206:142- 147. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12592082 . 
293. Sheehy O, Catherwood M, Pettengell R, Morris TC. Sustained 
response of primary cutaneous CD30 positive anaplastic large cell 
lymphoma to bexarotene and photopheresis. Leuk Lymphoma 
2009;50:1389 -1391. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19544141 . 
294. Fujimura T, Furudate S, Tanita K, et al. Successful control of phototherapy -resistant lymphomatoid papulosis with oral bexarotene. J 
Dermatol 2018;45:e37- e38. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28971510 . 
295. Proctor SJ, Jackson GH, Lennard AL, Marks J. Lymphomatoid papulosis: response to treatment with recombinant interferon alfa- 2b. J 
Clin Oncol 1992;10:170. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1727920 . 
296. Yagi H, Tokura Y, Furukawa F, Takigawa M. Th2 cytokine mRNA 
expression in primary cutaneous CD30- positive lymphoproliferative 
disorders: successful treatment with recombinant interferon -gamma. J 
Invest Dermatol 1996;107:827- 832. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8941669 . 
297. Schmuth M, Topar G, Illersperger B, et al. Therapeutic use of 
interferon- alpha for lymphomatoid papulosis. Cancer 2000;89:1603 -1610. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11013377.  
298. Brice P, Cazals D, Mounier N, et al. Primary cutaneous large -cell 
lymphoma: analysis of 49 patients included in the LNH87 prospective trial 
of polychemotherapy for high- grade lymphomas. Groupe d'Etude des 
Lymphomes de l'Adulte. Leukemia 1998;12:213 -219. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9519784 . 
299. Fernandez -de-Misa R, Hernandez -Machin B, Servitje O, et al. First -
line treatment in lymphomatoid papulosis: a retrospective multicentre study. Clin Exp Dermatol 2018;43:137- 143. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28994134 . 
300. Vonderheid EC, Sajjadian A, Kadin ME. Methotrexate is effective 
therapy for lymphomatoid papulosis and other primary cutaneous CD30-
positive lymphoproliferative disorders. J Am Acad Dermatol 1996;34:470-
481. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8609262 . 
301. Zackheim HS, Epstein EH, Jr., Crain WR. Topical carmustine therapy 
for lymphomatoid papulosis. Arch Dermatol 1985;121:1410- 1414. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4051529.  
302. Thomsen K, Wantzin GL. Lymphomatoid papulosis. A follow -up study 
of 30 patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 1987;17:632 -636. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2889756 . 
303. Calzavara -Pinton P, Venturini M, Sala R. Medium -dose UVA1 
therapy of lymphomatoid papulosis. J Am Acad Dermatol 2005;52:530 -
532. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15761440 . 
304. Everett MA. Treatment of lymphomatoid papulosis with methotrexate. 
Br J Dermatol 1984;111:631. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6498098 . 
305. Christensen HK, Thomsen K, Vejlsgaard GL. Lymphomatoid 
papulosis: a follow -up study of 41 patients. Semin Dermatol 1994;13:197 -
201. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7986688 . 
306. Yazawa N, Kondo S, Kagaya M, et al. Successful treatment of a patient with lymphomatoid papulosis by methotrexate. J Dermatol 
2001;28:373 -378. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11510505 . 
307. Fujita H, Nagatani T, Miyazawa M, et al. Primary cutaneous 
anaplastic large cell lymphoma successfully treated with low -dose oral 
methotrexate. Eur J Dermatol 2008;18:360- 361. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18474486 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-63 308. Cornejo CM, Novoa RA, Krisch RE, Kim EJ. Low -dose radiotherapy 
for primary cutaneous anaplastic large- cell lymphoma while on low -dose 
methotrexate. Cutis 2016;98:253 -256. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27874877 . 
309. Newland KM, McCormack CJ, Twigger R, et al. The efficacy of 
methotrexate for lymphomatoid papulosis. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2015;72:1088 -1090. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25981010 . 
310. Lewis DJ, Talpur R, Huen AO, et al. Brentuximab vedotin for patients 
with refractory lymphomatoid papulosis: An analysis of phase 2 results. 
JAMA Dermatol 2017;153:1302- 1306. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28980004 . 
311. Melchers RC, Willemze R, Bekkenk MW, et al. Frequency and 
prognosis of associated malignancies in 504 patients with lymphomatoid 
papulosis. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2020;34:260- 266. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31715046 . 
 
  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-64  
 
Subcutaneous Panniculitis- Like T -Cell Lymphoma  
Overview  
Subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma (SPTCL) is a rare subtype 
of cutaneous T- cell lymphoma  (CTCL)  indicated by the presence of 
pleomorphic cytotoxic T -cell infiltrates primarily affecting subcutaneous 
tissues.  First identified in 1991 by Gonzalez et al,1 SPTCL commonly 
follows an indolent course consisting of  erythematous  subcutaneous  
nodules and plaques in the lower extremities, but lesions may develop 
anywhere on the body.2-4 In unusual circumstances, adipocytes in other 
regions such as the mesentery can be affected by these malignant T- cells. 
SPTCL accounts for <1% of all non- Hodgkin lymphomas, with a 5- year 
survival average of 80%. Patients with SPTCL tend to be relatively 
younger  with a slight bias for females , and may have a family  or personal  
history of autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematous 
(SLE).4-7 As the clinical presentation can mimic other benign inflammatory 
disorders, sufficient testing should be done to aid in the diagnosis .8  
Initially, the term SPTCL represented two different entities  that were 
categorized as  having  either αβ or γδ TCR expression, with the latter 
being the more aggressive phenotype. However, in  2008  the World Health 
Organization (WHO)  reclassified and categorized SPTCL as only  SPTCL -
αβ; the γδ TCR- positive variant is listed as primary cutaneous γδ T- cell 
lymphoma (PCGD -TCL).9 The findings  from a SEER database analysis 
(132 patients with  SPTCL and 37 patients with  PCGD- TCL diagnosed 
between 2006 and 2015) indicated that patients with PCGD -TCL were , on 
average,  older, more likely to be male, and were at significantly higher risk 
of death than those with SPTCL (HR , 5.00; P = .005) .10 The αβ TCR 
phenotype is often CD4- , CD8+, and often restricted to the subcutaneous tissues, which is less common in  γδ TCR phenotype in PCGD -TCL.11,12 
Adipocyte rimming by CD8+ T- cells alongside a high Ki -67 staining index 
is often detected specifically in SPTCL,  while  tumoral growth in bone 
marrow or mesenchymal structures  is not typically observed.4,13  
Occasionally, cutaneous findings/lesions can resolve with areas of 
lipodystrophy and hyperpigmentation  without medical intervention . 
Systemic B symptoms such as fever, fatigue,  excessive sweating during 
sleep,  and weight loss  are commonly reported in patients with SPTCL. 
The disease may be complicated by  hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
(HLH) , which is generally associated with a more aggressive course , and 
a reduced  5-year survival (~46%) .1,4,14 HLH is observed less  frequently in 
SPTCL  (~15%–25% of SPTCL cases) than in PCGD -TCL with 
panniculitis -like lesions .15 Due to complications such as HLH,  SPTCL may 
be associated with elevated liver enzymes , splenomegaly,  and 
cytopenias.16 Treatment of 17 patients with SPTCL with HLH resulted in 
an overall response rate (ORR)  of 88%.17 In cases complicated by HLH, 
treatment of HLH concurrently with treatment of lymphoma is 
recommended.  
Literature Search Criteria  
Prior to the update of this version of the NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines
®), an electronic search of the PubMed 
database was performed to obtain key literature on SPTCL published since the previous Guidelines update using the following search terms: 
subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma . The PubMed database 
was chosen as it remains the most widely used resource for medical literature and indexes  peer-reviewed biomedical literature.
18 
The search results were narrowed by selecting studies in humans 
published in English. The data from key PubMed articles deemed as 
relevant to these guidelines have been included in this version of the This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Primary Cutaneous  
Lymphomas . Last updated: June 10, 2025 .  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-65 Discussion section. Recommendations for which high- level evidence is 
lacking are based on the P anel’s review of lower -level evidence and 
expert opinion.  
The complete details of the Development and Update of the NCCN 
Guidelines® are available at www.NCCN.org .  
Diagnosis  
A precise diagnosis of SPTCL is challenging and requires several 
methods to fully verify . Patients generally present with multiple painless 
erythematous nodules or plaques on the lower extremities, upper extremities, or trunk. Multiple B symptoms ( eg, fever, unintentional weight 
loss, pruritus ) may accompany the external symptoms that a patient has; 
this is more common with HLH.
16,19 As previously mentioned, the disease 
is commonly limited to subcutaneous tissues, but more aggressive phenotypes may rarely exhibit  dissemination into lymph nodes, peripheral 
blood,  and bone marrow  and rarely viscerally .  
Upon initial presentation, deep subcutaneous skin biopsy (deep telescope 
punch biopsy  vs. wedge excision) with adequate amount of adipose tissue 
(multiple  skin biopsies , if necessary) and immunophenotyping is essential 
to establish an accurate  diagnosis. SPTCL is commonly CD3+, CD8+, 
βF1+, CD2+, CD5+, and CD7+.
15,20,21  
In SPTCL, CD3, CD5, CD7, CD8, TCRβ, TIA -1, and granzyme are positive 
in most cases.22 CD8+ adipocyte- rimming T -cells involved in SPTCL 
frequently express high levels of Ki -67, a feature minimally observed in 
differential diagnoses such as lupus erythematosus panniculitis (LEP) and 
SLE.6,22 Perforin and granzyme were present in 22 Asian patients with 
SPTCL, a common feature of malignant lymphocytes expressing 
CD8.9,23,24  Initial immunohistochemistry (IHC) panel may include TCRβ, TCRδ, CD2, 
CD3, CD20, CD4, CD5, CD7, CD8, CD30, and CD56. Additional IHC 
markers Ki -67, CD123, TIA1, perforin, granzyme -B, CD1a, TdT, and TCL1 
will be useful in certain circumstances. In situ hybridization of Epstein- Barr 
virus -encoded RNA (EBER -ISH) is often included in the features tested 
when directing toward a diagnosis. In the majority of studies where a 
diagnosis of SPTCL is confirmed, the patients were EBER -ISH 
negative.9,13,16,25-27 EBER positivity is a potential trigger for secondary HLH 
in patients with immune -related disease, and thus should be included in 
diagnostic procedures.  
Molecular analysis to detect  TCR gene rearrangements or other 
assessment of clonality are recommended to identify the clonality of T-  
cells.22,28 Recurrent mutations in genes involved in epigenetic modification 
(KMT2C  and KMT2D ), and the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway ( PLCG1  and 
ARID1B ) have been identified in SPTCL.22,29  
An inherited autosomal recessive condition characterized by SPTCL with 
HLH resulting from HAVCR2 deficiency can lead to unregulated immune 
cell activation. HAVCR2 , which codes for T -cell immunoglobulin and TIM -
3, is an immune checkpoint that functions with programmed cell death 
protein 1  (PD-1) and LAG3 to mediate CD8+ T -cell exhaustion.24,30 A 
germline mutation in TIM -3, specifically p.Tyr82Cys, represents a well -
documented genetic alteration that induces increased protein aggregation, 
a metabolic consequence in patients with immune diseases such as 
SPTCL.24,31 Of note, this mutation is more prevalent in patients of Asian 
ancestry. Significant changes in TIM -3 expression are associated with 
HLH, refractory disease, and severe disease, which account for nearly 
20% of all SPTCL cases.14,15,32 Generally, TIM -3–mutant SPTCL cases are 
controlled by immunosuppression. HAVCR2  mutation is a useful marker 
that may aid in distinguishing SPTCL from non -malignant differential 
diagnoses and treatment decisions.33 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-66 Workup  
Initial examination of patients with suspected TCLs  such as SPTCL will 
generally consist of a thorough skin examination and palpations of 
abdominal organs as well as lymph node regions to check for any potential 
masses or growth. If a patient has a personal or family history of 
immunologic diseases includi ng autoimmunity, genomic profiling, 
antinuclear antibody (ANA) with reflex, rheumatoid factor (RF), thyroid-
stimulating hormone (TSH), and primary immunodeficiency (PID) gene 
panel s may help to narrow down the diagnosis. A single positive result for 
any of these individual markers does not necessarily rule out SPTCL. 
However, an  assessment  for predispositions to autoimmune diseases is 
crucial to identify other conditions that can be mistaken for  SPTCL .  
Blood tests (eg , complete blood count  [CBC] with differential) can reveal 
the relative number of relevant immune cells and markers , since  there are  
many  that exist that can point toward a more precise diagnosis. Markers 
such as lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH)  and ferritin are usually  higher than 
normal when there is HLH involved in SPTCL. The Histiocyte Society 
outlines eight diagnostic criteria that include ferritin elevation34 and serum 
LDH,  which  are also commonly elevated in patients with SPTCL.16,35 
Bone marrow biopsy is important for the workup of suspected HLH or 
unexplained cytopenias.26 Peripheral blood flow cytometry can be 
considered to rule out the diagnosis of other TCL subtypes . However,  
SPTCL is not typically associated with peripheral blood involvement . 
PET/CT scans are routinely utilized to assess the extent of disease, 
determine the stage, and identify disease locations. 18F -
fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) -PET/CT is used before and after treatment . Of 
63 individuals who underwent PET/CT or CT, a bnormal findings  were 
present in 59 individuals  (94%), revealing considerable involvement of 
subcutaneous fat. Additionally,  avid adenopathy was reported in 23 (37%) of these individuals.4 In a retrospective study of 11 patients with SPTCL , 
PET/CT  revealed lesions with varying  morphologies from multiple 
subcutaneous nodules .36 FDG uptake was variable within each patient and 
among all lesions. Though diagnosis of SPTCL is reliant on 
multiparameter IHC, PET/CT has utility in diagnostic confirmation and 
direction of biopsy  of enlarged lymph nodes or other suspected FDG -avid 
extracutaneous sites .36-38 Whole body FDG -PET/CT scan can be used to 
assess the extent of subcutaneous involvement and exclude systemic 
involvement.  
Treatment Options  
Since SPTCL is a rare subtype of lymphoma, there are not much data  
from large prospective trials  to support a standardized treatment regimen 
or protocol.  There are, however, several small studies and case reports 
that have helped illustrate some pathways for clinicians to treat patients 
with SPTCL.  Published reports and studies have shown that treatment 
options for SPTCL vary widely in their dosing, efficacy, and responses , 
which is reflective of staging and diagnostic discrepancies . As mentioned 
previously, obtaining an accurate diagnosis and developing a treatment plan for patients with SPTCL is challenging, and requires more studies 
with extensive data . 
While chemotherapy may be considered for patients presenting with HLH, 
immunomodulatory therapies are considered for patients who present 
without HLH.  
A comparison of immunosuppressive drugs (n  = 16) and 
polychemotherapy (n = 7) for SPTCL revealed that patients who received 
polychemotherapy showed a significantly lower complete response ( CR) 
rate (28%) when compared to those receiving immunosuppressive drugs 
(81%).
20 The polychemotherapy regimens used were either CHOEP 
(cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, etoposide, and prednisone) PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-67 or CHOP  (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) -
related chemotherapy, while the immunosuppressive drugs given were 
corticosteroid alone or low -dose methotrexate, cyclosporine A ( CsA), and 
hydroxychloroquine. These results were similar to Guitart et al who reported that patients with SPTCL receiving immunomodulatory therapies 
had comparable or better ORR than chemotherapy regimens.
4 The ORR s 
of CsA, methotrexate, bexarotene, and systemic steroids were 94%, 58%, 
25%, and 33%, respectively. Further treatment regimens were required in 
patients with progressive SPTCL. The study concluded that 
immunomodulatory regimens could be beneficial prior to  aggressive 
therapy with etoposide- containing chemotherapy regimens.  
Chemotherapy -free regimens containing immunomodulatory drugs seem 
to result in improved disease control rates (compared to treatment with 
subsequent lines of chemotherapy) in patients with relapsed or refractory 
disease after first - and second- line chemotherapy.39,40   
Limited available data on the use of immunomodulatory drugs and other 
single agents as treatment options for SPTCL are discussed below.  
Cyclosporine A  
CsA has been used successfully as both first - and second- line treatment 
for SPTCL. Several case studies of patients with SPTCL with  and without  
HLH revealed that CsA was effective with minimal side effects and a 
sustained CR , regardless of previous treatments and responses to 
treatments .41-48 In 11 patients  with SPTCL receiving CsA, 6 achieved 
progression- free survival ( PFS)  ranging from 9 to 24 months.41-43,47 CsA in 
combination with oral steroids in patients with SPTCL can control and 
occasionally eliminate disease with low probability of relapse.27 Prior to 
single - or multi -agent chemotherapy, CsA may be an effective option, 
including in cases with early signs of HLH.  Bexarotene 
Bexarotene, an oral  retinoid used for CTCL, has been shown to be 
effective at treating patients with SPTCL with an ORR of 82% (11/13) in SPTCL.
49 Durable responses were observed in several patients at 5 7, 58, 
and 92  months, with a median duration of response of 26 months, and the 
median PFS of 38 months. In patients who received bexarotene as 
maintenance therapy following remission to chemotherapy, the effect of 
bexarotene alone cannot be established.  
Pralatrexate  
Pralatrexate has been used as a treatment for SPTCL- refractory 
chemotherapy regimens and immune suppressants. In a study of patients with SPTCL who had between two to four previous lines of therapy, 
pralatrexate treatment led to a CR in two patients, with the other two 
patients requiring further intervention.
50 In a recent study involving  patients 
diagnosed with various cytotoxic CTCLs , seven individuals with SPTCL 
received pralatrexate as a single- agent therapy, resulting in a median time 
to next treatment  (TTNT)  of 18 months.51 Pralatrexate was also successful 
as a bridging therapy to allogeneic HCT in selected patients. As a  
subsequent  treatment for a patient with SPTCL refractory to 
chemotherapy, CsA, and allogeneic HCT , but without HLH, pralatrexate 
induced metabolic remission for > 18 months.52 As a single agent, 
pralatrexate may be considered as a first -line treatment option, an  
additional therapy for those with progressive disease, or as a maintenance 
therapy for those who have achieved a CR.  
Methotrexate 
Among 14 patients with SPTCL,  treatment  with methotrexate resulted in a 
response rate of 58% (five patients with a CR and two patients with a 
partial response [ PR]).4 In the same study, all patients without HLH had a 
positive response to methotrexate as a first -line therapy. Alongside 
prednisone, methotrexate helped a patient with SPTCL achieve remission 
for >21 months.53 Combination of oral steroids and methotrexate or CsA PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-68 led to a CR of 85% among 16 patients with SPTCL, and was associated 
with an estimated 5 -year disease- specific survival of 88% .27 
Romidepsin  
The efficacy of histone deacetylase inhibitor s such as  romidepsin as a 
potential treatment option for SPTCL has been demonstrated in case 
reports .54,55,56 In the first case report,  romidepsin was administered at 
standard dosing following the development of increased systemic 
symptoms with oral prednisone in one patient . After three cycles, all 
symptoms disappeared, with complete resolution of metabolic foci  in 
subcutaneous tissue by PET/ CT. Disease progression after prednisone 
and bexarotene led to treatment  with romidepsin for two cycles  in the 
second patient . A CR was seen upon PET/ CT. Romidepsin was employed 
to treat SPTCL refractory to prednisone, methotrexate, bexarotene, 
hydroxychloroquine, and acitretin.56 After starting romidepsin, 50% of 
nodules disappeared. The patient achieved a CR at 12 months, and 
treatment was discontinued at 18 months. No evidence of disease 
progression was reported. In a later study, two patients, one with SPTCL 
and the other with PCGD -TCL, received romidepsin among other 
treatments.54 The patient with SPTCL remained in CR ( median follow -up 
of 5 years ) with no evidence of disease recurrence,  while the patient with 
PCGD- TCL experienced disease progression after romidepsin treatment.  
More recently, among 22 patients with SPTCL, nine received romidepsin 
as a single agent, resulting in a median TTNT of 10 months.51  
Chemotherapy  
Optimal first- line combination chemotherapy in patients with SPTCL has 
been widely debated since SPTCL was classified as its own disease. In selected patients requiring chemotherapy, combination chemotherapy 
regimens have resulted in favorable response rat es.
4,12,57  
In a large retrospective analysis of 75 patients with SPTCL, 73 received 
chemotherapy, many of which contained etoposide (eg, CHOEP [cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, etoposide,  and prednisone];  
ICE [ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide] ; SMILE [dexamethasone, 
methotrexate, ifosfamide, and etoposide] ; CDE [cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin, and etoposide] ; and CMED [cyclophosphamide, etoposide, 
methotrexate, and dexamethasone]).4 The ORR for the entire cohort was 
72%, with 47% achieving a CR and 22% achieving a PR. 
In several instances, SPTCL becomes refractory after treatment with 
CHOP and alternative interventions with CsA41 or hematopoietic cell 
transplant (HCT) are needed for the treatment of refractory disease.
46,54,58,59 The presence of HAVCR2  mutations also confers 
resistance to CHOP chemotherapy, necessitating  subsequent  treatment 
with immunosuppressive regimens  or HCT.31  
Hematopoietic C ell Transplant  
HCT may be an  effective treatment option for SPTCL, especially in 
patients with progressive or refractory disease after first- line systemic 
therapy .46,60 Mou et al reported that in five patients with SPTCL with HLH 
who underwent allogeneic HCT, all of them were alive after a median 
follow- up of 3 years.51 Autologous  HCT was also successful at treating 
aggressive SPTCL with HLH in various  case reports .58,61,62,63 HCT has led 
to durable remissions in patients with SPTCL with HLH (range 30– 132 
months) and an equivalent 3 -year survival (80%) when compared to 
patients with SPTCL without H LH.62 A similar result was seen in a patient 
with B cell expansion with NF- κB and T- cell anergy (BENTA) disease who 
developed SPTCL. The patient required an autologous HCT  for 
progressive disease after multiple treatment regimens .48   
NCCN Recommendations 
Treatment options outlined in the NCCN Guidelines for patients with 
SPTCL are based on the presence of HLH and the extent of tumor burden  
(limited or localized vs . widespread subcutaneous disease).  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-69 SPTCL with HLH, S ystemic Disease, or H igh Tumor Burden (W idespread 
Subcutaneous Disease)  
First-Line Therapy  
Single agents (CsA, pralatrexate,  or romidepsin) with or without 
prednisone or etoposide- based combination chemotherapy regimens  can 
be considered as options for first -line therapy.4,51 It is recommended to 
start with etoposide -based regimens to control HLH first and then move to 
disease- specific therapies. Oral CsA is typically initiated at 3 –5 mg/kg/day 
in divided doses.41-43 Dose adjustment is based on response and 
tolerance. Higher dosage may be necessary to achieve disease control.  
Involved- site radiation therapy  (ISRT) can be considered for single lesion 
or limited disease with or without symptoms or HLH.  
Etoposide- based c ombination chemotherapy regimens including CHOEP, 
or DA-EPOCH ( dose -adjusted etoposide,  prednisone,  vincristine, 
cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin)  or ESHA (etoposide, 
methylprednisolone, and high- dose cytarabine) + cisplatin or oxaliplatin or 
ICE are also appropriate options for patients who are eligible for 
transplant.4 
Response Assessment and Additional Therapy  
Depending on the response to first -line therapy (CR  or PR), options such 
as observation or single- agent maintenance therapy (CsA, pralatrexate, 
romidepsin, methotrexate, or bexarotene) are recommended.49,50,52,55 Most 
patients will achieve a PR after first- line therapy, with a CR being less 
common. Generally, maintenance therapy is utilized for patients with 
disease who achieve some clinical benefit and/or those with disease 
responding to first -line therapy. Additionally, if a more marked response is 
seen, tapering of regimens to optimize duration of response is feasible. Select patients with SPTCL may be candidates for allogeneic HCT, 
depending on response to first -line therapy .
60,62 Patients who do not 
achieve an adequate response to first -line therapy may be given a different first- line therapy or the same therapy at a higher dose to achieve 
disease control.41,46 
Patients with disease relapse (after a period of observation or 
maintenance therapy)  should receive treatment  with either the same 
regimen previously given or an alternate regimen that was not given as 
first-line therapy.  Patients with disease relapse or refractory disease after 
multiple prior therapies may be recommended to enroll in clinical trials or 
to consider allogeneic HC T (if eligible) .54,58,62 
SPTCL Without HLH and Low Tumor Burden (L ocalized or L imited 
Subcutaneous Disease)  
First-Line Therapy  
Single agents (CsA, methotrexate,  or bexarotene), with or without 
prednisone, can be considered as options for first -line therapy.4,27,47,53 As 
mentioned above for SPTCL with HLH , CsA is typically initiated at 3 –5 
mg/kg/day in divided doses. It may be necessary to increase the dose to 
achieve disease control. Dose adjustment is based on response and 
tolerance. ISRT can be considered as a local therapy for single lesion or 
limited disease with and without symptoms of HLH.  
Response Assessment and Additional Therapy  
Depending on the response to first -line therapy (CR  or PR), options such 
as observation or single- agent maintenance therapy (CsA, pralatrexate, 
romidepsin, methotrexate, or bexarotene) are recommended .4,49,50,52,55 
Regarding CsA,  gradual  tapering or  continuation as  maintenance can be 
considered for patients with disease responding  to first- line therapy. If 
single -agent therapy  results in  clinical benefits or adequate response to 
first-line therapy, the single- agent therapy may be gradually  tapered to 
optimize duration of response or used as maintenance therapy.  
Patients who do not achieve an adequate response to first -line therapy 
may be given a different first -line therapy or a local therapy (if not given as PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-70 a first -line therapy) to achieve disease control. Further, pralatrexate or 
romidepsin can be given with or without prednisone as additional therapies 
if other treatment options are insufficient.  
Patients may experience relapse after a period of observation or 
maintenance therapy. Retreatment with the same regimen used previously 
or an alternate regimen not used in first -line therapy may be considered to 
prevent disease progression. However, relaps e or refractory disease after 
multiple previous therapies may occur, which may warrant a patient 
enrolling in a clinical trial, or consideration of an alternate regimen not 
previously used, such as in SPTCL with HLH, systemic disease, or high 
tumor burden.    PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-71 References  
1. Gonzalez CL, Medeiros LJ, Braziel RM, Jaffe ES. T- cell lymphoma 
involving subcutaneous tissue. A clinicopathologic entity commonly 
associated with hemophagocytic syndrome. Am J Surg Pathol 1991;15:17-
27. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1985499 . 
2. Salhany KE, Macon WR, Choi JK, et al. Subcutaneous panniculitis -like 
T-cell lymphoma: clinicopathologic, immunophenotypic, and genotypic 
analysis of alpha/beta and gamma/delta subtypes. Am J Surg Pathol 
1998;22:881 -893. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9669350 . 
3. Hahtola S, Burghart E, Jeskanen L, et al. Clinicopathological characterization and genomic aberrations in subcutaneous panniculitis -like 
T-cell lymphoma. J Invest Dermatol 2008;128:2304- 2309. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18337827 . 
4. Guitart J, Mangold AR, Martinez -Escala ME, et al. Clinical and 
Pathological Characteristics and Outcomes Among Patients With 
Subcutaneous Panniculitis -like T -Cell Lymphoma and Related Adipotropic 
Lymphoproliferative Disorders. JAMA Dermatol 2022;158:1167 -1174. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36001337.  
5. Bosisio FM, Cerroni L. Expression of T- follicular helper markers in 
sequential biopsies of progressive mycosis fungoides and other primary 
cutaneous T -cell lymphomas. Am J Dermatopathol 2015;37:115 -121. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25406852.  
6. LeBlanc RE, Tavallaee M, Kim YH, Kim J. Useful Parameters for 
Distinguishing Subcutaneous Panniculitis -like T -Cell Lymphoma From 
Lupus Erythematosus Panniculitis. Am J Surg Pathol 2016;40:745- 754. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26796503.  
7. Bhatt VR, Giri S, Verma V, et al. Survival of Subcutaneous Panniculitis -
Like T- Cell Lymphoma and Peripheral T -Cell Lymphoma Not Otherwise 
Specified: A Propensity -Matched Analysis of the Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results Database. Clin Lymphoma  Myeloma Leuk 2016;16:373 -378. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27349764 . 
8. Yamamoto Y, Mitsui A, Noda K, et al. Subcutaneous Panniculitis -like T -
cell Lymphoma with a HAVCR2 Mutation Diagnosed after 10 Years of 
Treatment with Glucocorticoids and Cyclosporine as Lupus Panniculitis. 
Intern Med 2023;62:1537- 1540. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36171125 . 
9. Kong YY, Dai B, Kong JC, et al. Subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell 
lymphoma: a clinicopathologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular study of 
22 Asian cases according to WHO -EORTC classification. Am J Surg 
Pathol 2008;32:1495- 1502. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18708940 . 
10. Goyal A, Goyal K, Bohjanen K, Pearson D. Epidemiology of primary 
cutaneous gammadelta T- cell lymphoma and subcutaneous panniculitis -
like T -cell lymphoma in the U.S.A. from 2006 to 2015: a Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results -18 analysis. Br J Dermatol 2019;181:848 -
850. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30951189 . 
11. Willemze R, Jaffe ES, Burg G, et al. WHO -EORTC classification for 
cutaneous lymphomas. Blood 2005;105:3768 -3785. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15692063 . 
12. Go RS, Wester SM. Immunophenotypic and molecular features, 
clinical outcomes, treatments, and prognostic factors associated with 
subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma: a systematic analysis of 
156 patients reported in the literature. Cancer 2004;101:1404 -1413. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15368328.  
13. Rutnin S, Porntharukcharoen S, Boonsakan P. Clinicopathologic, 
immunophenotypic, and molecular analysis of subcutaneous panniculitis -
like T -cell lymphoma: A retrospective study in a tertiary care center. J 
Cutan Pathol 2019;46:44 -51. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30350476 . 
14. Koh J, Jang I, Mun S, et al. Genetic profiles of subcutaneous 
panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma and clinicopathological impact of PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-72 HAVCR2 mutations. Blood Adv 2021;5:3919 -3930. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34535012 . 
15. Willemze R, Jansen PM, Cerroni L, et al. Subcutaneous panniculitis -
like T -cell lymphoma: definition, classification, and prognostic factors: an 
EORTC Cutaneous Lymphoma Group Study of 83 cases. Blood 
2008;111:838 -845. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17934071 . 
16. Ghobrial IM, Weenig RH, Pittlekow MR, et al. Clinical outcome of patients with subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma. Leuk 
Lymphoma 2005;46:703 -708. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16019507 . 
17. Ou W, Zhao Y, Wei A, et al. Subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell 
lymphoma associated with hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis: a 
systematic review of 63 patients reported in the literature. Clin Exp Med 
2023;23:4575 -4583. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37840116 . 
18. PubMed Overview. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/ . Accessed February 12, 2025.  
19. Parveen Z, Thompson K. Subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell 
lymphoma: redefinition of diagnostic criteria in the recent World Health 
Organization- European Organization for Research and Treatment of 
Cancer classification for cutaneous lymphomas. Arch P athol Lab Med 
2009;133:303 -308. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19195975 . 
20. Michonneau D, Petrella T, Ortonne N, et al. Subcutaneous 
Panniculitis -like T -cell Lymphoma: Immunosuppressive Drugs Induce 
Better Response than Polychemotherapy. Acta Derm Venereol 2017;97:358 -364. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27722764 . 
21. Maliniemi P, Hahtola S, Ovaska K, et al. Molecular characterization of 
subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma reveals upregulation of 
immunosuppression-  and autoimmunity -associated genes. Orphanet J Rare Dis 2014;9:160. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25928531 . 
22. Fernandez -Pol S, Costa HA, Steiner DF, et al. High- throughput 
Sequencing of Subcutaneous Panniculitis -like T -Cell Lymphoma Reveals 
Candidate Pathogenic Mutations. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol 
2019;27:740 -748. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31702703 . 
23. Guenova E, Schanz S, Hoetzenecker W, et al. Systemic corticosteroids for subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma. Br J 
Dermatol 2014;171:891- 894. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24725144 . 
24. Gayden T, Sepulveda FE, Khuong -Quang DA, et al. Germline 
HAVCR2 mutations altering TIM -3 characterize subcutaneous panniculitis -
like T cell lymphomas with hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytic syndrome. Nat Genet 2018;50:1650 -1657. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30374066 . 
25. Alsomali DY, Bakshi N, Kharfan- Dabaja M, et al. Diagnosis and 
Treatment of Subcutaneous Panniculitis -like T -cell Lymphoma: A 
Systematic Literature Review. Hematol Oncol Stem Cell Ther 2023;16:110 -116. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34015273 . 
26. Gochhait D, Kekade S, Devi D, et al. Subcutaneous Panniculitis -Like T 
Cell Lymphoma: Approach to Differential Diagnosis on Cytology. J 
Adolesc Young Adult Oncol 2020;9:120- 123. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31580741 . 
27. Lopez -Lerma I, Penate Y, Gallardo F, et al. Subcutaneous panniculitis -
like T -cell lymphoma: Clinical features, therapeutic approach, and 
outcome in a case series of 16 patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2018;79:892 -898. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30126736 . 
28. Hoque SR, Child FJ, Whittaker SJ, et al. Subcutaneous panniculitis -
like T -cell lymphoma: a clinicopathological, immunophenotypic and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-73 molecular analysis of six patients. Br J Dermatol 2003;148:516 -525. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12653744.  
29. Li Z, Lu L, Zhou Z, et al. Recurrent mutations in epigenetic modifiers 
and the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway in subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell 
lymphoma. Br J Haematol 2018;181:406 -410. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28294301 . 
30. Polprasert C, Takeuchi Y, Kakiuchi N, et al. Frequent germline 
mutations of HAVCR2 in sporadic subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell 
lymphoma. Blood Adv 2019;3:588 -595. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30792187 . 
31. Okamura Y, Makishima K, Suehara Y, et al. Genetic profiles and 
clinical features in subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphomas. 
Cancer Sci 2024;115:3788- 3794. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39288772 . 
32. Zhang Y, Wang Z, Hu G, et al. A novel germline HAVCR2 (TIM -3) 
compound heterozygous mutation is related to hemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytic syndrome in EBV -positive peripheral T- cell lymphoma 
(NOS) with down -regulated TIM -3 signaling. Front Oncol 2022; 12:870676. 
Available at:  
33. Machan S, Rodriguez M, Alonso -Alonso R, et al. Subcutaneous 
panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma, lupus erythematosus profundus, and 
overlapping cases: molecular characterization through the study of 208 
genes. Leuk Lymphoma 2021;62:2130 -2140. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33966586 . 
34. La Rosee P, La Rosee F. HLH: diagnostics revisited and improved. Blood 2024;144:2274 -2275. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39607714 . 
35. Tran NT, Nguyen KT, Le LT, et al. Subcutaneous Panniculitis -Like T-
Cell Lymphoma With Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis. J Investig 
Med High Impact Case Rep 2024;12:23247096241253337. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38742532 . 36. Jiang M, Zhao L, Zheng J, et al. Report of Eleven Patients of Subcutaneous Panniculitis -Like T- Cell Lymphoma: Clinicopathologic 
Features, (18)F -FDG PET/CT Findings and Outcome. Front Oncol 
2021;11:650822. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34277404 . 
37. Oztek MA, Elhussein W, Parisi MT. SNMMI PIC case competition 
finalist: Subcutaneous Panniculitis -Like T- Cell Lymphoma on 18 F- FDG 
PET/CT. Clin Nucl Med 2025;50:e173 -e174. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39774428 . 
38. Kim JW, Chae EJ, Park YS, et al. Radiological and clinical features of 
subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma. J Comput Assist Tomogr 
2011;35:394 -401. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21586937 . 
39. Chen C, Yin J, Duan M, et al. Chemo- free salvage treatment 
outperforms traditional chemotherapy in advanced lines of 
relapsed/refractory subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma. Front 
Immunol 2024;15:1476875. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/39717785 . 
40. Duan Y, Gao H, Zhou C, et al. A retrospective study of 18 children with 
subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma: multidrug combination 
chemotherapy or immunomodulatory therapy? Orphanet J Rare Dis 
2022;17:432. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36503528 . 
41. Rojnuckarin P, Nakorn TN, Assanasen T, et al. Cyclosporin in 
subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma. Leuk Lymphoma 
2007;48:560 -563. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17454599 . 
42. Al Zolibani AA, Al Robaee AA, Qureshi MG, Al Nosian H. 
Subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma with hemophagocytic 
syndrome successfully treated with cyclosporin A. Skinmed 2006;5:195-
197. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16855414 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-74 43. Mizutani S, Kuroda J, Shimura Y, et al. Cyclosporine A for 
chemotherapy -resistant subcutaneous panniculitis -like T cell lymphoma 
with hemophagocytic syndrome. Acta Haematol 2011;126:8 -12. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21411984.  
44. Iqbal N, Raina V. Successful treatment of disseminated subcutaneous 
panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma with single agent oral cyclosporine as a 
first line therapy. Case Rep Dermatol Med 2014;2014:201836. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25506440.  
45. Aragon -Miguel R, Calleja -Algarra A, Velasco -Tamariz V, et al. Is 
cyclosporine a good option for the treatment of subcutaneous panniculitis -
like T -cell lymphoma associated with hemophagocytic syndrome? Indian J 
Dermatol Venereol Leprol 2019;85:656 -659. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31571617 . 
46. Jung HR, Yun SY, Choi JH, et al. Cyclosporine in Relapsed Subcutaneous Panniculitis -like T -Cell Lymphoma after Autologous 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation. Cancer Res Treat 2011;43:255-259. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22247712 . 
47. Tsukamoto Y, Katsunobu Y, Omura Y, et al. Subcutaneous 
panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma: successful initial treatment with 
prednisolone and cyclosporin A. Intern Med 2006;45:21 -24. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16467600 . 
48. Bauman BM, Dorjbal B, Pittaluga S, et al. Subcutaneous panniculitis -
like T -cell lymphoma in two unrelated individuals with BENTA disease. 
Clin Immunol 2023;255:109732. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37562721 . 
49. Mehta N, Wayne AS, Kim YH, et al. Bexarotene is active against 
subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma in adult and pediatric 
populations. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2012;12:20 -25. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22001256 . 
50. Ware O, Tarabadkar ES, Shustov A, Shinohara MM. Pralatrexate for 
refractory or recurrent subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma with hemophagocytic syndrome. J Am Acad Dermatol 2020;82:489- 491. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31319088.  
51. Mou E, Fernandez -Pol S, Li S, et al. Clinical characteristics, treatment 
patterns, and outcomes of cytotoxic cutaneous T -cell lymphomas. Am J 
Hematol 2024;99:985 -988. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38391088 . 
52. Ong SY, Phipps C, Kaur H, et al. Pralatrexate Induces Long- Term 
Remission in Relapsed Subcutaneous Panniculitis -Like T- Cell Lymphoma. 
Ann Acad Med Singap 2019;48:298 -300. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31737895 . 
53. Grinich E, Koon SM, Cascio MJ, Fett N. Subcutaneous panniculitis -like 
T-cell lymphoma responsive to combination therapy with methotrexate and 
corticosteroids. Dermatol Online J 2018;24. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30677832 . 
54. Gibson JF, Alpdogan O, Subtil A, et al. Hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation for primary cutaneous gammadelta T- cell lymphoma and 
refractory subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma. J Am Acad 
Dermatol 2015;72:1010- 1015 e1015. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25981001 . 
55. Bashey S, Krathen M, Abdulla F, et al. Romidepsin is effective in subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 
2012;30:e221 -225. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22753921 . 
56. Jothishankar B, Espinosa ML, Zain J, et al. Complete response to romidepsin as monotherapy in treatment -resistant subcutaneous 
panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma. JAAD Case Rep 2020;6:1245- 1247. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33294555.  
57. Ohtsuka M, Miura T, Yamamoto T. Clinical characteristics, differential 
diagnosis, and treatment outcome of subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell 
lymphoma: a literature review of published Japanese cases. Eur J 
Dermatol 2017;27:34- 41. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28120776 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version  3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025  
Primary Cutaneous Lymphomas  
 
MS-75 58. Dholaria B, Patel RJ, Sluzevich JC, et al. Relapsed subcutaneous 
panniculitis -like T cell lymphoma: role of haploidentical hematopoietic stem 
cell transplant. Ann Hematol 2017;96:2125- 2126. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28879427 . 
59. Nakahashi H, Tsukamoto N, Yamane A, et al. Autologous peripheral 
blood stem cell transplantation to treat CHOP -refractory aggressive 
subcutaneous panniculitis -like T cell lymphoma. Acta Haematol 
2009;121:239 -242. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19556752 . 
60. Yuan L, Sun L, Bo J, et al. Durable remission in a patient with refractory subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma relapse after 
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation through withdrawal of 
cyclosporine. Ann Transplant 2011;16:135- 138. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21959522 . 
61. Alaibac M, Berti E, Pigozzi B, et al. High- dose chemotherapy with 
autologous blood stem cell transplantation for aggressive subcutaneous 
panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma. J Am Acad Dermatol 2005;52:S121- 123. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15858508.  
62. Lin TA, Yang CF, Liu YC, et al. Hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation for subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma: single 
center experience in an Asian population. Int J Hematol 2019;109:187-
196. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30547418 . 
63. Mukai HY, Okoshi Y, Shimizu S, et al. Successful treatment of a 
patient with subcutaneous panniculitis -like T -cell lymphoma with high- dose 
chemotherapy and total body irradiation. Eur J Haematol 2003;70:413-416. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12756026 . 
 
 
 
 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 5:58:58 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.