Version 1.2026, 06/24/25  © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 — June 24, 2025
ContinueNCCN.org
NCCN Guidelines for Patients® available at www.nccn.org/patientsNCCN recognizes the importance of clinical trials and encourages participation when applicable and available. 
Trials should be designed to maximize inclusiveness and broad representative enrollment.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
*Shaji K. Kumar, MD/Chair ‡  
Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center
*Natalie S. Callander, MD/Vice Chair ‡ ξ 
University of Wisconsin  
Carbone Cancer Center 
Kehinde Adekola, MD, MSCI ‡  
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer  
Center of Northwestern University
Larry D. Anderson, Jr, MD, PhD ‡  
UT Southwestern Simmons  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
*Muhamed Baljevic, MD ‡ Þ ξ 
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center
Rachid Baz, MD ‡ 
Moffitt Cancer Center
Erica Campagnaro, MD ‡ 
University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center
Caitlin Costello, MD ‡ Þ ξ 
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
Christopher D'Angelo, MD ‡  
Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
  Benjamin Derman, MD † ‡
  The UChicago Medicine  
  Comprehensive Cancer Center
Srinivas Devarakonda, MD ‡  
The Ohio State University Comprehensive 
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  
and Solove Research Institute 
Noura Elsedawy, MD † 
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital/  
The University of Tennessee  
Health Science CenterAmandeep Godara, MD ‡ 
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of Utah
Kelly Godby, MD ‡ 
O'Neal Comprehensive  
Cancer Center at UAB
Jens Hillengass, MD, PhD ‡ 
Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center
Leona Holmberg, MD, PhD ‡ ξ  
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
Myo Htut, MD ‡ Þ  
City of Hope National Medical Center
Carol Ann Huff, MD † ‡  
Johns Hopkins  
Kimmel Cancer Center
Malin Hultcrantz, MD, PhD ‡  
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
Yubin Kang, MD ‡ † ξ 
Duke Cancer Institute
Sarah Larson, MD † ‡ 
UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
Hans C. Lee, MD ‡ ‡ 
The University of Texas  
MD Anderson Cancer Center
Michaela Liedtke, MD ‡ 
Stanford Cancer Institute
Thomas Martin, MD ‡ 
UCSF Helen Diller Family  
Comprehensive Cancer Center 
James Omel, MD ¥ 
Patient AdvocateTimothy J. Robinson, MD, PhD §  
Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital 
Aaron Rosenberg, MD ‡ ξ 
UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center
Shayna R. Sarosiek, MD ‡ 
Dana-Farber/Brigham and  
Women's Cancer Center
Mark A. Schroeder, MD, MSCI ‡  
Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-  
Jewish Hospital and Washington  
University School of Medicine
Daniel Sherbenou, MD, PhD †  
University of Colorado Cancer Center
Attaya Suvannasankha, MD ‡ 
Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon 
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Jason Valent, MD ‡ 
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/  
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center 
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
Asya Nina Varshavsky-Yanovsky, MD, PhD  † ‡ 
Fox Chase Cancer Center
Dan Vogl, MD ‡  
Abramson Cancer Center  
at the University of Pennsylvania
NCCN
Emily Kovach 
Rashmi Kumar, PhD
NCCN Guidelines Panel DisclosuresContinueξ Bone marrow transplantation
‡ Hematology/Hematology
oncology
Þ Internal medicine
† Medical oncology¥ Patient advocacy
§ Radiation oncology
*  Discussion section writing 
committee PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way . The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may not 
be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2025.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
NCCN Waldenström Macrogl obulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma Panel Members
Summary of the Guidelines Updates  
Diagnosis and Workup (WM/LPL-1)
Asymptomatic or Minimally Symptomatic (WM/LPL-2)
Primary Treatment, Management After Primary Treatment, and Relapse (WM/LPL-3)
WHO Criteria for Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma and Waldenström Macroglobulinemia,
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia International Workshop Criteria, and Modified Staging Sys -
tem for Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (MSS-WM) (WM/LPL-A)
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma Therapy (WM/LPL-B) 
IWWM-11 Response Criteria for Assessment of Disease Response in WM/LPL1 (WM/LPL-C)
Management of Bing Neel Syndrome (BNS-1)
Abbreviations (ABBR-1)Find an NCCN Member Institution: 
https://www.nccn.org/home/
member-institutions .
NCCN Categories of 
Evidence and Consensus: All 
recommendations are category 2A 
unless otherwise indicated. 
See NCCN Categories of 
Evidence  
and Consensus .
NCCN Categories of Preference:  
All recommendations are 
considered appropriate.
See NCCN Categories of 
Preference .PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATES Updates in Version 1.2026 of the NCCN Guidelines for WM/LPL from Version 2.2025 include:
Global
• References updated throughout Guidelines.
WM/LPL-1
• Workup, Useful in Certain Circumstances, 2nd bullet revised: CXCR4 gene mutation testing  for patients being considered for Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors.
• Footnote c, last sentence added: For classification of IgM monoclonal gammopathies, see Table 1 in Treon SP, et al. Semin Hematol 2023;60:97 and MGNS-1 in the 
NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma.
WM/LPL-2
• Indications for Treatment, line added: or if asymptomatic with high levels of IgM (>6000 mg/dL)
• Footnote m revised: Retinal examination once a year if serum IgM level >3000 mg/dL. Consider therapy in asymptomatic patients with serum IgM level >6000 mg/dL.
WM/LPL-3
• Management After Primary Treatment
If treated with fixed-duration chemoimmunotherapy regimens pathway revised: Observe until symptomatic progressio nve of disease
If treated with BTK inhibitor regimens pathway revised: Continue treatment until symptomatic disease progression of disease  (beyond biochemical progression) or 
unacceptable toxicity
• Footnote p revised: Plasmapheresis should be performed for patients with symptomatic hyperviscosity or severe cryoglobulin-related symptoms , and before treatment 
with Rituximab-containing regimen in patients with IgM ≥4000 mg/dL.
WM/LPL-A
• Modified Staging System for Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (MSS-WM) replaces Revised IPSS Waldenström Macroglobulinemia Scoring System.
WM/LPL-B (1 of 4)
• Side Effects and Laboratory Tests, 2nd bullet revised: Serial serum IgA and IgG levels should be carefully monitored as these can be depleted with WM therapies. See 
Prevention and Treatment of Cancer-Related Infections.
• Substitutions, 1st bullet revised: A U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any recommended systemic biologic 
therapy in the NCCN Guidelines  rituximab .
WM/LPL-B (2 of 4)
• Primary Therapy for WM/LPL table
Regimen moved from Preferred to Other Recommended: Ibrutinib ± Rituximab (category 1)
• Footnote d added: Should not be used in first-line for patients with LPL-associated amyloidosis.
WM/LPL-B (3 of 4)
• Therapy for Previously Treated WM/LPL table
Regimen moved from Useful in Certain Circumstances to Other Recommended: Pirtobrutinib
WM/LPL-B (4 of 4)
• Reference removed: Morel P, Duhamel A, Gobbi P, et al. International prognostic scoring system for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Blood. 2009;113:4163-4170.
• Reference removed: Owen RG, Kyle RA, Stone MJ, et al. Update from the VIth International Workshop on Waldenström macroglobulinaemia. Response assessment 
in Waldenström macroglobulinaemia: update from the VIth International Workshop. Br J Haematol 2013;160:171-176.
• Reference added: Treon SP, Tedeschi A, San-Miguel J, et al. Report of consensus Panel 4 from the 11th International Workshop on Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia 
on diagnostic and response criteria. Semin Hematol 2023;60:97-106.
• Reference added: Zanwar S, Le-Rademacher J, Durot E, et al. Simplified risk stratification model for patients with W aldenström macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 
2024;42:2527-2536.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
WM/LPL-1Essentialb,c
• Hematopathology 
review of all slides 
with at least one 
paraffin block 
representative of the 
tumor (rebiopsy if 
consult material is 
nondiagnostic)
• Adequate tissue 
biopsy for 
immunophenotyping 
to establish diagnosis
Typical 
immunophenotype: 
CD19+, CD20+, 
sIgM+; CD5, CD10, 
CD23 may be 
positive in 10%–
20% of cases and 
does not exclude 
diagnosisEssential
• History and physical examination
• Complete blood count (CBC), differential, platelet count
• Peripheral blood smear
• Comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) including serum blood urea nitrogen (BUN)/
creatinine, electrolytes, albumin, calcium, and liver function tests (LFTs)
• Serum uric acid, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and beta-2 microglobulin
• Creatinine clearance (calculated or measured directly)
• Serum quantitative immunoglobulins, serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP), serum 
immunofixation electrophoresis (SIFE)
• Unilateral bone marrow aspirate and biopsy, including immunohistochemistry (IHC) 
and/or multi-parameter flow cytometry
• Chest/abdomen/pelvis CT ± contrast and/or FDG-PET/CT when possible
• MYD88 L265Pd allele-specific polymerase chain reaction (AS-PCR) testing of bone 
marrow 
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Serum viscosity
• CXCR4  gene mutation testinge 
• Testing for hepatitis B (if Rituximab planned), hepatitis C,f and HIV 
• Cryocritf,g
• Consider coagulation and/or von Willebrand disease testing if symptoms present 
(excess bruising or bleeding) or if clinically indicated
• Cold agglutinins
• Neurology consulth
• Anti–myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) antibodies/anti-GM1h
• Nerve conduction study (NCS)/electromyogram (EMG)h
• Fat pad sampling  and/or congo red staining of bone marrow for amyloidh
• Retinal examination (if IgM ≥3.0 g/dL or if hyperviscosity is suspected)
• 24-h urine for total protein, urine protein electrophoresis (UPEP), and urine 
immunofixation electrophoresis (UIFE)
• Amyloid tissue subtyping with mass spectrometry, if indicated
• If central nervous system (CNS) symptoms, see BNS-1 Symptomsi related to:
• Hyperviscosity
• Neuropathy
• Organomegaly
• Amyloidosis
• Cold agglutinin 
disease
• Cryoglobulinemia 
• Anemia and 
other cytopenias 
associated with 
disease
• Bulky adenopathy
• B symptoms
• Cytopenias Primary  
treatment
(WM/LPL-3)DIAGNOSIS WORKUPa
Asymptomatic 
or minimally 
symptomaticMonitoring plan 
(WM/LPL-2)
a Frailty assessment should be considered in older adults. See NCCN Guidelines for Older 
Adult Oncology .
b  WHO Criteria for Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma and Waldenström Macroglobulinemia 
(WM/LPL-A).
c Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL) encompasses IgG, IgA, serum free light chain 
alone, and non-secretory subtypes, although makes up <5% of all LPLs. The treatment of 
non-IgM LPLs parallels that of IgM-secreting LPLs, but these are less likely to have either 
hyperviscosity associated with them, or autoimmune-related neuropathy. It is important 
to differentiate from IgM MGUS or IgM multiple myeloma. For classification of IgM 
monoclonal gammopathies, see Table 1 in Treon SP, et al. Semin Hematol 2023;60:97 and 
MGNS-1 in the NCCN Guidelines for Multiple Myeloma .d MYD88 wild-type occurs in <10% of patients and should not be used to exclude diagnosis 
of WM if other criteria are met.
e Studies have shown that mutations in this gene are found in up to 40% of patients with 
Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM)/LPL and can impact ibrutinib response.
f Consider in patients with suspected cryoglobulinemia.
g  If cryocrit is positive, then repeat testing of initial serum IgM, and obtain all subsequent 
serum IgM levels under warm conditions.
h In patients presenting with suspected disease related to peripheral neuropathy, rule 
out amyloidosis in patients presenting with nephrotic syndrome or unexplained cardiac 
problems.
i Confirm symptoms are not related to or caused by comorbidities.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
WM/LPL-2j Reserve therapy only for symptomatic patients, as untreated asymptomatic 
patients have similar survival compared to age- and sex-matched individuals of 
the general population.
k Risk score calculator is available at www.awmrisk.com. All values are taken at 
approximately the same time.l Confirm symptoms are not related to or caused by other comorbidities.
m Retinal examination once a year if serum IgM level >3000 mg/dL.
n Detection of cold agglutinins or cryoglobulins in the absence of symptoms does 
not represent a criterion to treat.INDICATIONS FOR TREATMENT FOLLOW-UP
Asymptomatic 
or minimally 
symptomaticjPrimary  
treatment
(WM/LPL-
3)Calculate asymptomatic 
Waldenström macroglobulinemia 
(WM) risk score usingk:
• Bone marrow involvement (%)
• Serum IgM level (mg/dL)
• Serum beta-2 microglobulin 
level (mg/L)
• Serum albumin level (g/dL)Low Risk
Median time to
progression: 9.2 years
Intermediate Risk
Median time to
progression: 4.8 years
High Risk
Median time to
progression: 1.8 yearsSymptomsl related to:
• Hyperviscositym
• Neuropathy
• Organomegaly
• Amyloidosis
• Cold agglutinin 
diseasen
• Cryoglobulinemian
• Anemia and other 
cytopenias
• Bulky adenopathy
• B symptoms
• Cytopenias
Or if asymptomatic 
with high levels of IgM 
(>6000 mg/dL)Monitor every 3 
months with
CBC, CMP, 
SPEP, serum 
immunoglobulinsMonitor every 12 
months with CBC, 
CMP, SPEP, serum 
immunoglobulins
Monitor every 6 
months with
CBC, CMP, 
SPEP, serum 
immunoglobulinsASYMPTOMATIC OR MINIMALLY SYMPTOMATIC WM PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
WM/LPL-3o Intent of therapy should be based on palliation of symptoms, not necessarily 
levels of IgM unless the patient is exhibiting evidence of symptomatic 
hyperviscosity. 
p Plasmapheresis should be performed for patients with symptomatic 
hyperviscosity or severe cryoglobulin-related symptoms, and before treatment 
with Rituximab-containing regimen in patients with IgM ≥4000 mg/dL. IgM should 
be monitored closely in these patients thereafter and plasmapheresis should be 
considered again if symptomatic hyperviscosity recurs or if IgM is ≥4000 mg/
dL while on Rituximab-containing therapy. Red blood cell (RBC) transfusion, if 
indicated, should be done after plasmapheresis to prevent added hyperviscosity 
load.q In patients with neuropathy, symptom stability might be the goal of therapy as 
neuropathy symptoms take time to improve.
r Response Criteria for WM/LPL (WM/LPL-C).
s NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship .
t CBC, CMP, and IgM every 3 months for 2 years, then every 4–6 months for an 
additional 3 years, then every 6–12 months. Progression based on IgM levels 
alone, without symptoms, should not be a reason to re-treat.
u Maintenance Rituximab may be considered in select patients after chemo-
immunotherapy regimens. 
v Caution should be used when re-treating with myelosuppressive regimens due to 
cumulative toxicities.PRIMARY 
TREATMENToRELAPSE
Plasmapheresis 
for symptomatic 
hyperviscosityp
and
Primary therapy, 
see WM/LPL-B
or
Clinical trial
If transformation, 
see NCCN 
Guidelines 
for B-Cell 
Lymphomas, 
Histologic 
Transformation 
of Indolent 
Lymphomas 
to Diffuse 
Large B-Cell 
Lymphoma 
(DLBCL)No response/ 
Progressive 
diseaserObserves,t until symptomatic 
progression of diseaser,u
Continue treatment until 
symptomatic progression of 
disease (beyond biochemical 
progression) or unacceptable 
toxicity
If persistent 
symptomsqChoose alternative therapy,  
see WM/LPL-Bv 
If transformation, see NCCN 
Guidelines for B-Cell Lymphomas, 
Histologic Transformation of 
Indolent Lymphoma to DLBCLIf treated with 
fixed-duration 
chemoimmunotherapy 
regimens 
If treated with BTK 
inhibitor regimensConsider previously used 
regimens, if well tolerated 
and had a prolonged 
responsev see WM/LPL-BMANAGEMENT AFTER 
PRIMARY TREATMENTPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
WM/LPL-AWHO CRITERIA FOR LYMPHOPLASMACYTIC LYMPHOMA AND WALDENSTRÖM MACROGLOBULINEMIA
• Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma:
Neoplasm of small B lymphocytes, plasmacytoid lymphocytes, and plasma cells
Usually involving bone marrow and sometimes lymph nodes and spleen
Does not fulfill criteria of any other small B-cell lymphoid neoplasm that may also have plasmacytic differentiation 
Reproduced with permission from Swerdlow SH, Campo E, Harris NL, et al. World Health Organization Classification of Tumours of Haematopoietic and Lymphoid 
Tissues, revised 4th edition. IARC, Lyon 2017.
• Waldenström macroglobulinemia:
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma with bone marrow involvement and IgM monoclonal gammopathy of any concentration
Adapted with permission. Owen RG, Treon SP, Al-Katib A, et al. Clinicopathological definition of Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: Consensus panel recommendations 
from the Second International Workshop on Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia. Semin Oncol 2003;30:110-115.
WALDENSTRÖM MACROGLOBULINEMIA INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP CRITERIA
• Proposed Criteria for the Diagnosis of Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
IgM monoclonal gammopathy of any concentration
Bone marrow infiltration by small lymphocytes, plasmacytoid cells, and plasma cells
Diffuse, interstitial, or nodular pattern of bone marrow infiltration
CD19+, CD20+, sIgM+; CD5, CD10, CD23 can be expressed in some cases of W aldenström macroglobulinemia and does not exclude diagnosis.
Reprinted with permission from Elsevier. Owen RG. Developing diagnostic criteria in Waldenström's macroglobulinemia. Semin Oncol 2003;30:196-200.
MODIFIED STAGING SYSTEM FOR WALDENSTR ÖM MACROGLOBULINEMIA (MSS-WM)
Simplified Risk Stratification Model for Individuals with Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
Table 1
Criteria Points
Age 66–75 1
Age >75 2
Elevated LDH 2
Serum albumin <3.5 g/dL 1Table 2
Score* Risk
0 Low
1 Low-Intermediate
2 Intermediate
≥3 High
*Sum of total points in Table 1 
Adapted from Zanwar S, Le-Rademacher J, Durot E, et al. Simplified risk stratification model for patients with Waldenström macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 2024;42:2527-2536.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
General Principles
• Frailty assessment should be considered in older adults. See NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology .
• If candidates for hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT)
Exposure to nucleoside analogs (fludarabine and cladribine) should be avoided.
• Plasmapheresis
In patients with symptomatic hyperviscosity, plasmapheresis should first be performed; plasmapheresis should also be considered before 
treatment with Rituximab for patients with asymptomatic WM with an IgM ≥4000 mg/dL  or who are symptomatic to avoid aggravation of 
serum viscosity based on Rituximab-related IgM flare. Rituximab may also be held in patients with elevated serum IgM levels for initial 
treatment cycles. Blood warmers should be used for apheresis if cryoprecipitate or cryoglobulin are present.
Screening Recommendations
• Screen for HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C, as clinically indicated. 
Prophylaxis Recommendations
• Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PJP) prophylaxis should be considered for patients receiving Bendamustine/Rituximab or Fludarabine/
Cyclophosphamide/Rituximab. 
• Administer herpes zoster prophylaxis for all patients treated with proteasome inhibitors and nucleoside analogs. 
• Prophylactic antiviral therapy with entecavir is recommended for any patient who is hepatitis B surface antigen-positive and receiving anti-
CD20 therapy. If there is active disease (PCR+), it is considered treatment/management and not prophylactic therapy. In cases of hepatitis B 
core antibody positivity, prophylactic antiviral therapy is preferred; however, if there is a concurrent high-level hepatitis B surface antibody, 
these patients may be monitored with serial hepatitis B viral load.
Side Effects and Laboratory Tests
• Carfilzomib can potentially cause cardiac and pulmonary toxicity, especially in older patients.
• IgG levels should be carefully monitored as these can be depleted with WM therapies. See Prevention and Treatment of Cancer-Related 
Infections. 
• Regimens containing Bortezomib and Vincristine are associated with higher risk of treatment-related peripheral neuropathy, especially in 
those with disease-related baseline neuropathy. Close monitoring or alternative therapies should be considered in some patients.
Dosing and Administration of Proteasome Inhibitors
• Subcutaneous Bortezomib is the preferred method of administration.
• Both weekly and twice-weekly dosing schemas of Bortezomib may be appropriate; weekly is preferred.
• Carfilzomib may be used once (preferred) or twice weekly and at different doses. 
Substitutions
• A U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any recommended systemic biologic therapy 
in the NCCN Guidelines. 
• Rituximab and Hyaluronidase human injection for subcutaneous administration may be substituted for Rituximab after patients have 
received the first full dose of Rituximab by intravenous infusion.GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR WM/LPL
WM/LPL-B
1 OF 4PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
WM/LPL-B
2 OF 4a General Considerations for Systemic Therapy for WM/LPL (WM/LPL-B 1 of 4).
b Obinutuzumab may be considered in patients who are unable to tolerate Rituximab (W róbel T, et al. Hemasphere 2023;7:e4339598. doi: 10.1097/01.
HS9.0000971308.43395.98 ).
c Rapid increases in IgM levels (IgM rebound) have been observed following discontinuation of BTK inhibitors. Consider continuing therapy with the BTK inhibitor until 
starting the next line of therapy or monitor for IgM rebound after discontinuation of BTK inhibitors.
d Should not be used in first-line for patients with LPL-associated amyloidosis.
ReferencesPRIMARY THERAPY FOR WM/LPLa,b
(The regimens under each preference category are listed by order of NCCN Category of Evidence and Consensus alphabetically.)
Preferred
• Zanubrutinibc,d (category 1)
• Bendamustine/Rituximab
Other Recommended
• Ibrutinibc,d (category 1) 
• Ibrutinibc,d + Rituximab (category 1)
• Bendamustine 
• Bortezomib/Dexamethasone/Rituximab
• Carfilzomib/Rituximab/Dexamethasone
• Ixazomib/Rituximab/Dexamethasone• Rituximab
• Rituximab/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
• Rituximab/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone + Bortezomib
• Rituximab/Cyclophosphamide/PrednisonePLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
WM/LPL-B
3 OF 4ReferencesTHERAPY FOR PREVIOUSLY TREATED WM/LPLa,b
(The regimens under each preference category are listed by order of NCCN Category of Evidence and Consensus alphabetically.)
Preferred
• Ibrutinibc (category 1)
• Ibrutinibc + Rituximab (category 1)
• Zanubrutinibc (category 1)
• Bendamustine/Rituximab
• Rituximab/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone
Other Recommended
• Acalabrutinibc
• Bortezomib/Dexamethasone/Rituximab
• Ixazomib/Rituximab/Dexamethasone• Pirtobrutinib
• Rituximab/Cyclophosphamide/Prednisone
• Venetoclax
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Bendamustine 
• Cladribinee
• Cladribine + Rituximabe
• Everolimus
• Fludarabinee
• Fludarabine + Rituximabe• Fludarabine/Cyclophosphamide/Rituximabe 
• Rituximab
• RCHOP (Rituximab/Cyclophosphamide/Doxorubicin/Vincristine/Prednisone)
Hematopoietic Cell Transplant
• In selected patients HCT may be appropriate with either:
Allogeneic HCT (ablative or nonablative)f
Autologous HCT
a General Considerations for Systemic Therapy for WM/LPL (WM/LPL-B 1 of 4).
b Obinutuzumab may be considered in patients who are unable to tolerate Rituximab (W róbel T, et al. Hemasphere 2023;7:e4339598. doi: 10.1097/01.
HS9.0000971308.43395.98 ).
c Rapid increases in IgM levels (IgM rebound) have been observed following discontinuation of BTK inhibitors. Consider continuing therapy with the BTK inhibitor until 
starting the next line of therapy or monitor for IgM rebound after discontinuation of BTK inhibitors.
e May be associated with disease transformation and/or development of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)/acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in patients with WM. 
f Should ideally be undertaken in the context of a clinical trial.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
WM/LPL-B 
4 OF 4REFERENCES
Buske C, Dimopoulos MA, Grunenberg A, et al. Bortezomib-dexamethasone, rituximab, 
and cyclophosphamide as first-line treatment for Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia: 
A prospectively randomized trial of the European Consortium for Waldenström's 
Macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 2023;41:2607-2616. 
Buske C, Tedeschi A, Trotman J, et al. Ibrutinib plus rituximab versus placebo plus 
rituximab for Waldenström's macroglobulinemia: Final analysis from the randomized 
phase III iNNOVATE study. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:52-62.
Castillo JJ, Advani RH, Branagan AR, et al. Consensus treatment recommendations 
from the tenth International Workshop for Waldenström Macroglobulinaemia. Lancet 
Haematol 2020;7:e827-e837.
Castillo JJ, Allan JN, Siddiqi T, et al. Venetoclax in previously treated Waldenström 
macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:63-71.
Castillo JJ, Meid K, Flynn CA, et al. Ixazomib, dexamethasone, and rituximab in 
treatment-naive patients with Waldenström macroglobulinemia: long-term follow-up. 
Blood Adv 2020;4:3952-3959.
Castillo JJ, Meid K, Gustine JN, et al. Long-term follow-up of ibrutinib monotherapy 
in treatment-naive patients with Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Leukemia 
2022;36:532-539.
Dimopoulos MA, Anagnostopoulos A, Kyrtsonis MC, et al. Primary treatment 
of Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia with dexamethasone, rituximab, and 
cyclophosphamide. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3344-3349.
Dimopoulos MA, Kastritis E. How I treat Waldenström macroglobulinemia. Blood 
2019;134:2022-2035.
Dimopoulos MA, Zervas C, Zomas A, et al. Treatment of Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia with rituximab. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:2327-2333.
Gertz MA, Rue M, Blood E, et al. Multicenter phase 2 trial of rituximab for Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia (WM): an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Study (E3A98). 
Leuk Lymphoma 2004;45:2047-2055.
Ghobrial IM, Gertz M, Laplant B, et al. Phase II trial of the oral mammalian 
target of rapamycin inhibitor everolimus in relapsed or refractory Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1408-1414.Ghobrial IM, Hong F, Padmanabhan S, et al. Phase II trial of weekly bortezomib 
in combination with rituximab in relapsed or relapsed and refractory Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1422-1428.
Kyle RA, Treon SP, Alexanian R, et al. Prognostic markers and criteria to initiate 
therapy in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: consensus panel recommendations 
from the Second International Workshop on Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia. Semin 
Oncol 2003;30:116-120.
Owen R, McCarthy H, Rule S, et al. Acalabrutinib monotherapy in
patients with Waldenström macroglobulinemia: a single-arm, multicentre,
phase 2 study. Lancet 2019;7:e112-e121.
Palomba ML, Patel MR, Eyre TA, et al. Efficacy of pirtobrutinib, a highly selective, 
non-covalent (reversible) BTK inhibitor in relapsed/refractory Waldenström 
macroglobulinemia: results from the Phase 1/2 BRUIN study. Blood 2022;140:557-560.
Rummel MJ, Niederle N, Maschmeyer G, et al. Bendamustine plus rituximab versus 
CHOP plus rituximab as first-line treatment for patients with indolent and mantle-cell 
lymphomas: an open-label, multicentre, randomised, phase 3 non-inferiority trial. 
Lancet 2013;381:1203-1210. Published correction appears in Lancet 2013;381:1184.
Tam CS, Opat S, D'Sa S, et al. A randomized phase 3 trial of zanubrutinib vs 
ibrutinib in symptomatic Waldenström macroglobulinemia: the ASPEN study. Blood 
2020;136:2038-2050. 
Treon SP, Ioakimidis L, Soumerai JD, et al. Primary therapy of Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia with bortezomib, dexamethasone, and rituximab: WMCTG clinical 
trial 05-180. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:3830-3835.
Treon SP, Meid K, Gustine J, et al. Long-term follow-up of ibrutinib monotherapy in 
symptomatic, previously treated patients with Waldenström macroglobulinemia. J Clin 
Oncol 2021;39:565-575.
Treon SP, Tripsas CK, Meid K, et al. Carfilzomib, rituximab, and dexamethasone 
(CaRD) treatment offers a neuropathy-sparing approach for treating Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia. Blood 2014;124:503-510.
Treon SP, Tedeschi A, San-Miguel J, et al. Report of consensus Panel 4 from the 
11th International Workshop on Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia on diagnostic and 
response criteria. Semin Hematol 2023;60:97-106.
Zanwar S, Le-Rademacher J, Durot E, et al. Simplified risk stratification model for 
patients with Waldenström macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 2024;42:2527-2536.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
RESPONSE CRITERIA FOR WM/LPL
IWWM-11 RESPONSE CRITERIA FOR ASSESSMENT OF DISEASE RESPONSE IN WM/LPL1
WM/LPL-CResponseaSerum Monoclonal IgM Serum IgM LevelBone Marrow Aspirate
and Trephine BiopsyExtramedullary disease
Complete Response (CR)Absence of monoclonal
IgM protein by SPEP
and IFX.Within normal rangeNormal morphology;
no evidence of LPL
involvement.Absence of extramedullary
disease if present at baseline.
See criteria for determination
of resolution of extramedullary
disease.e
Very good partial response (VGPR)≥90% reduction in serum IgM levels or within 
normal range
Partial response (PR) ≥50% to <90% reduction in serum IgM levels
Minor response (MR) ≥25% to <50% reduction in serum IgM levels
Stable disease (SD)<25% reduction to <25% increase in serum 
IgM levels
Progressive disease (PD)≥25% increase in serum IgM levels with 
a minimum increase of 500 mg/dL from 
nadir. Reconfirmation is required by 2 
sequential (back-to-back) measurements if 
the serum IgM is being used to support PD. 
Demonstration of PD by imaging does not 
require re-confirmation .b,cAny new lesion (>1.5 cm in any axis) or 
unequivocal evidence of an increase by 
> 50% in any axis to >1.5 cm in size of 
previously involved extramedullary disease 
sites from their nadir measurements.
Any new lesion consistent with 
transformed disease.
Nonevaluable (NE)Suspected IgM flare or IgM rebound, 
absence of data or suspected error in data 
reportingd
1 Reproduced with permission. Treon SP, Tedeschi A, San-Miguel J, et al. Report of consensus Panel 4 from the 11th International Workshop on Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia on 
diagnostic and response criteria. Semin Hematol 2023;60:97-106.a Categorical response assessment for CR, VGPR, PR, MR or SD assumes no signs or symptoms consistent with disease progression are present. The overall response rate includes 
MR, PR, VGPR, and CR responses, whereas the major response rate includes PR, VGPR and CR responses. b Re-confirmation of CR, VGPR, PR, MR, or SD is not required. Progressive disease (PD) must be re-confirmed if the IgM is being used to support PD. To meet criteria for progressive 
disease, a ≥25% increase in serum IgM level with a minimum serum IgM increase of 500 mg/dL  from the nadir is required on 2 sequential (back-to-back) measurements. In the event an 
IgM measurement meets PD criteria, and the subsequent measurement does not, the patient will not have met PD criteria until 2 back-to-back measurements show PD. Demonstration of 
PD by imaging does not require re-confirmation. In the event of discordant response findings, that is, IgM measurement shows a response but imaging shows PD related to WM, then the 
assessment should be considered PD. c Suspected IgM flare or IgM rebound related to therapy will not be considered as progressive disease. d A nonevaluable response assessment should be specified in cases of suspected IgM flare or IgM rebound; absence of data, or suspected error in data reporting (ie, contradictory central 
vs local laboratory measurements).e For CR attainment, normalization of extramedullary disease if present at baseline will be considered complete resolution or decrease in size of lymph nodes (≤1.5 cm) or decrease in the 
size of spleen (≤15 cm), or complete resolution of any other non-lymph node or non-splenic extramedullary mass(es) related to WM disease consistent with revised response criteria for 
malignant lymphoma. Cheson BD, Pfistner B, Juweid ME, et al. Revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:579-586.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Neurological 
deficits 
concerning 
Bing Neel 
syndrome:
• Headaches
• Seizures
• Cranial nerve 
palsies
• Weakness in 
limbs
• Atypical 
neuropathyEssential
• Brain and entire spine MRI with 
gadolinium enhancement
• Lumbar puncture for 
cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) analysis (cytology, 
multiparameter flow 
cytometry, PCR for IgH gene 
rearrangement, PCR for MYD88 
L265P)
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Biopsy of affected tissue
• Concurrent bone marrow 
aspiration and biopsy for IgH 
gene rearrangement and MYD88 
L265P testingDefinitive Diagnosis
• Presence of clonal B 
cells in CSF or tissue 
biopsy with similar 
profile than systemic 
disease with or without 
leptomeningeal 
enhancement or 
masses in MRI
Probable Diagnosis
• Abnormal MRI findings 
without evidence of 
clonal B cells in CSF or 
tissue biopsyAsymptomatic 
Symptomatica,bPreferred Regimens
• Ibrutinib
• Zanubrutinib
Other Recommended Regimens
• Bendamustine
• Cytarabine
• Fludarabine
• Methotrexate
Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Intrathecal Methotrexate
• RadiotherapyObservation
a Rituximab can be added to these regimens if systemic control is needed.
b Response criteria per Minnema MC, et al. Haematologica 2017;102:43-51.
BNS-1MANAGEMENT OF BING NEEL SYNDROME
WORKUPPLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
AML acute myeloid leukemia 
AS-
PCRallele-specific polymerase chain 
reaction
BUN blood urea nitrogen 
CBC complete blood count 
CMP comprehensive metabolic panel
CNS central nervous system 
CR complete response
CSF cerebrospinal fluid
DLBCL diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
EMG electromyogram
GM1 monosialotetrahexosylganglioside
HCT hematopoietic cell transplant 
HIV human immunodeficiency virus IgA immunoglobulin A
IgG immunoglobulin G
IgM immunoglobulin M
IHC immunohistochemistry 
LDH lactate dehydrogenase 
LFT liver function test 
LPL lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma
MAG myelin-associated glycoprotein
MDS myelodysplastic syndrome 
MGUS monoclonal gammopathy of 
undetermined significance
MR minor response
MSS-WM Modified Staging System for 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
NCS nerve conduction study
NE nonevaluablePCR polymerase chain reaction  
PD progressive disease
PJP pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia 
PR partial response 
RBC red blood cell 
SD stable disease
SIFE serum immunofixation 
electrophoresis
SPEP serum protein electrophoresis 
UIFE urine immunofixation 
electrophoresis
UPEP urine protein electrophoresis
VGPR very good partial response
WM Waldenström macroglobulinemia ABBREVIATIONS
ABBR-1PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2026
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/  
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
Version 1.2026 06/24/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
CAT-1NCCN Categories of Evidence and Consensus
Category 1 Based upon high-level evidence (≥1 randomized phase 3 trials or high-quality , robust meta-analyses), there is 
uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 2A Based upon lower-level evidence, there is uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 2B Based upon lower-level evidence, there is NCCN consensus (≥50%, but <85% support of the Panel) that the 
intervention is appropriate.
Category 3 Based upon any level of evidence, there is major NCCN disagreement that the intervention is appropriate. 
All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
NCCN Categories of Preference
PreferredInterventions that are based on superior efficacy, safety, and evidence; and, when appropriate, 
affordability.
Other recommendedOther interventions that may be somewhat less efficacious, more toxic, or based on less mature data; 
or significantly less affordable for similar outcomes.
Useful in certain 
circumstancesOther interventions that may be used for selected patient populations (defined with recommendation).
All recommendations are considered appropriate.PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-1 Discussion  
Table of Contents  
Overview  ........................................................................................... MS-2 
Literature Search Criteria and Guidelines Update Methodology  ... MS-2 
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage .............................................. MS-2 
Diagnosis  ..........................................................................................  MS-2 
Workup  ..............................................................................................  MS-3 
Essential Tests  ................................ ................................ ...........  MS-3 
Tests Useful Under Certain Circumstances ..............................  MS-3 
Asymptomatic or Minimally Symptomatic  ...................................... MS-5 
Primary Therapy Regimens for WM/LPL  ......................................... MS-5 
Preferred Regimens for Primary Therapy  ................................ . MS-6 
Other Recommended Regimens for Primary Therapy  ..............  MS-7 
Assessment of Response to Primary Treatment  ......................  MS-9 
Follow -up After Primary Treatment  ............................................... MS-10 
Therapy for Previously Treated WM/LPL  ...................................... MS-10 
Preferred Regimens for Previously Treated WM/LPL  .............  MS-11 
Other Recommended Regimens for Previously Treated WM/LPL 
 ................................ ................................ ................................ .. MS-11 
Regimens Useful in Certain Circumstances for Previousl y Treated 
WM/LPL  ................................ ................................ ....................  MS-12  
 
Hematopoietic Cell Transplant  ...................................................... MS-14 
Management of Bing- Neel Syndrome  ........................................... MS-14 
References  ...................................................................................... MS-16 
 
  
  This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoblastic Lymphoma.  Last 
updated : February 6th, 2025   PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-2 Overview 
Waldenström  macroglobulinemia (WM) is a B -cell disorder characterized 
primarily by bone marrow infiltration with lymphoplasmacytic cells  (LPCs) 
and immunoglobulin M ( IgM) monoclonal gammopathy.1 This condition is 
defined as “ lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma ” (LPL) by the Revised 
European- American Lymphoma  (REAL) and World Health Organization 
(WHO ) classification systems.2,3 WM is a rare disorder with approximately 
1000 to 1500 new cases diagnosed annually  in the United States.4,5 
Review of the SEER database between 1980 and 2016 showed that  
white  individuals , those  assigned male at birth,  and individuals  aged  >60 
years  are more likely to develop WM .6 
Literature Search Criteria and Guidelines Update 
Methodology  
Prior to the update of this version of the NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines 
in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®) for Waldenström  
Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma, an electronic search 
of the PubMed database was performed to obtain key literature in 
WM/LPL  using the following search terms: Waldenström  
macroglobulinemia OR lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma.  The PubMed 
database was chosen as it remains the most widely used resource for 
medical literature and indexes peer -reviewed biomedical literature .7  
The search results were narrowed by selecting studies in h umans 
published in English. Results were confined to the following article types:  
Clinical Trial, Phase II; Clinical Trial , Phase III ; Clinical Trial, Phase IV;  
Guideline;  Practice Guideline; Randomized Controlled Trial ; Meta -
Analysis ; Systematic Reviews ; and Validation S tudies.   
The data from key PubMed articles as well as articles from additional 
sources deemed as relevant to these guidelines as discussed by the 
Panel during the Guidelines update have been included in this version of the Discussion section. Recommendations for which high- level evidence is 
lacking are based on the Panel’s review of lower -level evidence and 
expert opinion.  
The complete details of the D evelopment and Update of the NCCN 
Guidelines® are available at www.NCCN.org .  
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage  
NCCN Guidelines strive to use language that advances the goals of 
equity, inclusion, and representation.  NCCN Guidelines endeavor  to use 
language that is person- first; not stigmatizing; anti -racist, anti -classist, anti -
misogynist, anti -ageist, anti -ableist, and anti -weight -biased; and inclusive 
of individuals of all sexual orientations and gender identities.  NCCN 
Guidelines  incorporate non- gendered language, instead focusing on 
organ- specific recommendations. This language is both more accurate 
and more inclusive and can help fully address the needs of individuals of 
all sexual orientations and gender identities. NCCN Guideli nes will 
continue to use the terms men , women , fema le, and male  when citing 
statistics, recommendations, or data from organizations or sources that do 
not use inclusive terms. Most studies do not report how sex and gender 
data are collected and use these terms interchangeably or inconsistently. 
If sources do not differentiate gender  from sex assigned at birth or organs 
present, the information is presumed to predominantly represent cisgender 
individuals. NCCN encourages researchers to collect more specific data in 
future studies and organizations to use mor e inclusive and accurate 
language in their future analyses.  
Diagnosis 
Key to the diagnosis of WM/LPL is the demonstration of bone marrow 
infiltration by a LPC  population manifested by small lymphocytes with 
evidence of plasmacytoid/plasma cell differentiation. The bone marrow infiltration should be supported by immunophenotypic studies (flow PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-3 cytometry and/or immunohistochemistry) showing the following profile: 
sIgM+, CD19+, CD20+, CD22+.1 According to the current WHO 
classification, the lymphocytes in WM are typically negative for CD5, CD10, and CD23.
8 However, this should not exclude diagnosis as 
exceptions occur  and approximately  10% to  20% of cases may express 
CD5, CD10, or CD23.9,10 MYD88  L265P mutations are present in >90% 
of patients with WM ,11 and can help differentiate WM/LPL from IgM 
myeloma or marginal zone lymphom a. 
Workup      
Essential Tests  
History and physical (H&P) examination are essential components of initial evaluation. Laboratory studies include complete blood count (CBC) with 
differential, peripheral blood smear examination, and comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP), as well as creatinine clearance. CMP  includes 
serum blood urea nitrogen (BUN)/creatinine, electrolytes, albumin, calcium, and liver function tests (LFTs)  to assess kidney and liver 
function.
12 Serum uric acid , lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) , and beta -2 
microglobulin should also be included as  part of the initial workup to 
assess risk of tumor lysis, tumor burden, and as a prognostic indicator.13 
To establish the diagnosis of WM, it is necessary to demonstrate IgM monoclonal protein in the serum  and histologic evidence of LPCs  in the 
bone marrow.
1 Serum protein electrophoresis  (SPEP) , serum quantitative 
immunoglobulins, and serum immunofixation  electrophoresis (SIFE)  are 
used to identify and quantify the M -protein (IgM). While detection of a 
monoclonal IgM protein in the serum is a diagnostic criterion for WM, this 
monoclonal IgM may be found clinically either in the setting of clinical WM, 
IgM monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (IgM MGUS), 
or IgM multiple myeloma. It is important to make this distinction during 
diagnosis. Approximately 5% of patients with LPL can secrete non- IgM paraproteins (eg, IgG, IgA, kappa, lambda) or be non- secretory and 
should have LPL managed like WM . 
The International Prognostic Scoring System for WM (IPSS- WM) is useful  
for prognostication of WM  at first- line treatment initiation.14,15 Its value in 
making treatment -related decisions remains to be clarified.14 
Bone marrow is almost always involved in WM ; therefore , a unilateral 
bone marrow aspirate and biopsy should be performed to document clonal LPC population and confirmed by immunohistochemistry and/or flow 
cytometry.
1,8 Multiparametric flow cytometry may provide additional data 
on the immunophenotypic characterization of WM.16 
The bone marrow aspirate should be tested for MYD88  L265P mutation. 
Whole genome sequencing of bone marrow LPL cells has identified MYD88  L265P as a commonly recurring mutation in patients with  
WM.
11,17,18 Absence of MYD88  mutations should not be used to exclude 
diagnosis of WM if  other criteria are met.19 The NCCN Panel recommends 
allele-specific polymerase chain reaction (AS -PCR) for MYD88  L265P  
detection.   
CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis with intravenous (IV) contrast  
and/or FDG -PET/CT at time of diagnosis are useful to properly stage the 
patient and can assess adenopathy, splenomegaly, and other 
extramedullary disease sites.  
Tests Useful Under Certain Circumstances  
IgM is a pentamer and a common cause of hyperviscosity. Therefore, 
evaluation for characteristic clinical signs and symptoms of serum 
viscosity should be done at diagnosis. Many  patients with WM will  exhibit 
an elevated serum viscosity level of >1.8 centipoise (cP). Patients typically 
become symptomatic at serum viscosity levels of >4.0 cP. However, in 
some patients, lower levels of serum viscosity can cause retinal changes PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-4 and hemorrhages that  may necessitate intervention.20 Serum viscosity 
results should not be used as the sole criterion for intervention, in part due 
to long turnaround time and potential technical issues.  
In <10% of patients  with WM , monoclonal IgM may present with cold 
agglutinin activity, where  the monoclonal IgM  interact with specific red cell 
antigens below physiologic  temperatures , producing complement -
mediated hemolysis causing chronic hemolytic anemia.21,22 The cold 
agglutinin titers are > 1:1000 in most cases.  In up to 20% of patients  with 
WM, the monoclonal IgM may behave as a cryoglobulin (type I)  but will be  
symptomatic in ≤5% of cases. The presence of cold agglutinins or 
cryoglobulins may affect determination of IgM levels ; therefore, testing for 
cold agglutinins and cryoglobulins should be performed at diagnosis.23 
Notably, cold agglutinins are also a key feature of primary cold agglutinin 
disease (CAD), part of the differential diagnosis of WM.24,25  
Gene testing for  the CXCR4 mutation may be useful if patients are  
considered for Bruton’s tyrosine kinase inhibitors (BTKis).26 CXCR4 
mutations are present in ≤40% of patients with WM  and are indicative of 
more aggressive disease. These mutations have a reduced sensitivity towards certain BTKis, specifically ibrutinib.  
When suspected, cryocrit, a test for cryoglobulins , should be obtained. 
The presence of cryoglobulins m ay render falsely low serum IgM levels . 
In such situation s, maintaining the serum sample in a warm bath will 
provide a more relia ble serum IgM level measurement .
27 Hepatitis C 
virus (HCV) should also be ruled out if cryoglobulinemia is suspected.28 
Serologic screening  for hepatitis B  virus  (HBV)  is recommended, as 
certain agents, specifically rituximab, are known to induce  severe, and 
potentially fatal,  viral reactivation .29 Individuals may also be screened for 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)  as part of the workup .  Coagulation studies and/or von Willebrand disease testing can be considered if the patient presents with excessive bruising or bleeding, or 
if otherwise clinically indicated. 
Twenty -four-hour urine for total protein, creatinine clearance , urine 
protein electrophoresis (UPEP), and urine immunofixation 
electrophoresis (UIFE)  may be useful.  
Patients with WM and peripheral neuropathy may harbor antibodies 
against myelin- associated glycoprotein (MAG) or other glycoproteins or 
lipids.
23,30   
Serum anti -MAG  antibodies can be evaluated in patients with sensory 
peripheral neuropathies31; in those with motor neuropathy, anti -ganglioside 
M1 antibodies may also be evaluated. In patients with peripheral 
neuropathy, referral s for neurologic consultation should be considered . 
Nerve conduction studies (NCS) or electromyography (EMG) may help 
determine if neuropathy  is related  to the monoclonal process or other 
causes .32 Fat pad sampling and/or congo red staining of bone marrow for 
amyloid can also be performed in patients with suspected disease related 
to peripheral neuropathy. Amyloidosis should be ruled out in those presenting with nephrotic syndrome or unexplained cardiac conditions. If 
indicated, amyloid tissue subtyping with mass spectrometry may be 
performed.  
The median age at the time of WM diagnosis ranges from  60 to 75 
years.23,33,34 Therefore, f railty assessment should be considered prior to 
treatment of older adults with WM as per  the NCCN Guidelines for Older 
Adult Oncology  (available at NCCN.org ). 
The manifestation of neurologic deficits is  ambiguous and could be the 
result of  underlying comorbidities.  If CNS involvement is suspected in PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-5 individuals with WM; imaging  studies, cerebral spinal fluid ( CSF) analysis, 
or tissue biopsy are needed to investigate  Bing-Neel syndrome  (BNS) .  
Asymptomatic or Minimally Symptomatic 
WM may be preceded by asymptomatic disease states such as IgM 
MGUS or smoldering WM (SWM).35 Approximately 1.5%  of patients with 
IgM MGUS and 12% of those with SWM have disease progression to WM 
per year.11,36- 38 The risk of disease progression is estimated using an 
asymptomatic risk score calculator , which takes the following diagnostic 
measurements into consideration: bone marrow involvement (%), serum 
IgM level (mg/dL ), serum beta -2 microglobulin level (mg/dL ), and serum 
albumin level (g/dL ). 3 Based on the risk score, the risk of disease 
progression is categorized as  low risk, intermediate risk, and high risk, 
with a median time to progression to symptomatic disease of 9.2 years, 
4.8 years, and 1.8 years, respectively. The frequency of follow- up varies 
based on the risk status. Follow -up includes monitoring with diagnostic 
testing,  including CBC, CMP, SPEP, and serum immunoglobulins, every 
12 months for low risk, every 6 months for intermediate risk, and every 3 months for high risk.  
Primary T herapy Regimens for WM/LPL  
According to the NCCN WM/LPL Panel, treatment should be initiated for 
patients with a diagnosis of WM/LPL only in those who are symptomatic. 
The indicative symptoms of  treatment include hyperviscosity; neuropathy; 
symptomatic adenopathy or organomegaly; amyloidosis; cryoglobulinemia; 
cold agglutinin disease; anemia; B-symptoms ; and presence of 
cytopenia.14,39- 41 Importantly, high IgM level  by itself  should not be 
considered a criterion for initiation of therapy in the absence of other 
indications.  The NCCN Panel notes that it is important to rule out 
symptoms related to comorbidities before treatment initiation and 
detection of cold agglutinins or cryoglobulins in the absence of symptoms does not represent a criterion to treat , whereas treatment should be 
considered in asymptomatic patients with serum IgM level >6000 mg/dL.   
Since WM is a rare disease, few randomized trials and limited data 
comparing different treatment approaches exist . Therefore,  the treatment 
for WM has been primarily adopted from data derived from phase II or 
retrospective studies .  
According to the NCCN Panel, for patients requiring immediate disease 
control, such as those with symptomatic hyperviscosity,  initial 
plasmapheresis is recommended.42 After plasmapheresis, systemic 
treatment should be initiated as soon as possible.  
Agents that limit future treatment options should be avoided during initial therapy. Exposure to continuous oral alkylator therapy or nucleoside 
analogs should be avoided prior to stem cell harvest if a n autologous  
hematopoietic  cell transplant ( HCT) is being considered. Nucleoside 
analogs are associated with an increased risk of disease transformation, 
development of myelodysplastic syndromes  (MDS),  and secondary acute 
myelo id leukemia (AML ).
43,44 
The NCCN Panel recommends serial monitoring of serum IgA and IgG 
levels during therapy.  Herpes zoster prophylaxis should be considered for 
patients  receiving proteasome inhibitor -based regimens and nucleoside 
analogs . 
HBV reactivation is common in patients with hematologic malignancies.  
The NCCN P anel recommends screening for HBV infection by testing for 
hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) or antibody to hepatitis B core 
antibody  (HBcAb) as clinically indicated.  Prophylactic antiviral therapy with 
entecavir is recommended for those who have HB cAb to prevent HBV 
reactivation. In those with resolved HBV infection, who have antibodies  to 
HBcA g, the P anel prefers prophylaxis with antiviral therapy. However, if PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-6 there is a concurrent high- level HBcAb , monitoring serially for hepatitis B 
viral load and giving antiviral therapy as soon as HBV DNA is detectable is 
also an option.  
All treatment options  for WM/LPL are listed alphabetically in the NCCN 
Guidelines. The NCCN Panel has categorized WM therapy regimens as : 
“preferred regimens,” “other recommended  regimens, ” and regimens 
“useful under certain circumstances.”  The purpose of classifying regimens 
is to provide guidance on treatment selection considering the relative 
efficacy,  toxicity, and other factors that play into treatment selection, such 
as pre -existing comorbidities ( eg, peripheral neuropathy, rituximab 
intolerance). The  NCCN Panel Members strongly encourage treatment in 
the context of a clinical trial when possible.   
Preferred Regimens for Primary Therapy  
Bendamustine/Rituximab : Rituximab, a monoclonal antibody that targets 
the B -lymphocyte antigen CD20, has been used in the treatment of WM, 
because CD20 is expressed on LPCs  in patients  with WM. Bendamustine, 
an alkylating agent caus ing crosslinks in DNA bases  resulting in 
apoptosis, is frequently used in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  and 
indolent B- cell non- Hodgkin lymphoma  (NHL) .45 A multicenter study by  the 
French Innovative Leukemia Organization (FILO)  showed favorable 
outcomes in 69 patients with WM, treated with bendamustine  and 
rituximab  (BR).46 Progression- free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) 
after 5 years were 6.63% (95% CI , 56.09– 79.17)  and 80.01% (95% CI , 
70.82– 90.41) , respectively. The Study Group Indolent  Lymphomas (Sti L) 
examined the activity of bendamustine plus rituximab (BR) versus 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone plus rituximab 
(RCHOP ) in a large , randomized, multicenter , phase III trial of previously 
untreated patients with indolent NHL .47 Included in this study were 41 
patients with WM/LPL, 40 of whom were available for response assessment.
47 After a  median follow -up of 45 months , the median PFS  was significantly longer with BR treatment , 69.5 versus 28.5 months with 
RCHOP .48 BR was associated with a lower incidence of grade 3 or 4 
neutropenia, infectious complications, and alopecia in this study. These results suggest that BR may be a preferable option to RCHOP  as primary  
therapy for WM.
48 The results of the StiL NHL- 2008 MAINTAIN trial, 
demonstrate a median PFS of  65.3 months  in those receiving BR, which  is 
consistent with the results of the StiL NHL1 -2003 trial (69.5 months) .49 
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP) prophylaxis should be considered 
for patients receiving BR.  
The NCCN Panel has included BR as a P referred Regimen for Primary 
Therapy.   
Ibrutinib With or W ithout Rituximab : Signal ing pathways  from the B -cell 
antigen receptor and BTK are crucial in mediat ing the growth and survival 
of B-cell malignancies .50-53 
A phase II study of 30 treatment -naïve patients with WM treated with 
ibrutinib  monotherapy reported an ORR of 100%, a very good partial 
response ( VGPR ) rate of 30%, and a 48 -month PFS rate of 76%.52 
Adverse events (AEs) associated with ibrutinib include bleeding and 
arrhythmia. Ibrutinib is approved by the FDA as single- agent therapy for 
patients with WM until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.    
The phase III iNNOVATE trial (n  = 150) compared patients  with newly 
diagnosed and relapsed/refractory WM treated with ibrutinib/rituximab or 
rituximab plus placebo.53 At 30 months of follow -up, the ibrutinib/rituximab 
treatment showed an ORR of 95% compared with 48% in those treated 
with rituximab/placebo. In newly diagnosed patients, treatment with 
ibrutinib/rituximab demonstrated an improved PFS at 24 months ( 84%) 
compared to the rituximab arm  (59%) (hazard ratio [ HR], 0.34; 95% CI , 
0.12– 0.95).53 The rituximab- induced infusion reactions were markedly PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-7 reduced in the ibrutinib/rituximab arm.54 At 50 months of follow -up, 
improvements in PFS were seen with ibrutinib/rituximab (median not 
reached) over rituximab/placebo (median PFS, 20 months), demonstrating 
a significant reduction in disease progression or death (HR, 0.25; 95% CI, 
0.15– 0.42; P < .0001). The estimated 54- month PFS rates were 68% with 
ibrutinib/rituximab versus 25% with rituximab/placebo. Median OS was not reached in either treatment arm (HR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.33– 1.99; P = .64). 
The ORR was 92% with ibrutinib/rituximab versus 44% with  
rituximab/placebo. CXCR4  mutations affected VGPR rates (23% vs. 44%) 
but did not impact PFS. The most common grade 3/4 AEs  with 
ibrutinib/rituximab over the 5- year study period were infections (29%), 
atrial fibrillation (16%), hypertension (15%), neutropenia (13%), anemia (12%), and pneumonia (11%).
55 
The NCCN Panel has included ibrutinib with or without rituximab as a Preferred Regimen for Primary Therapy (category 1) .  
Zanubrutinib: Zanubrutinib is a BTK i with a higher affinity to BTK than 
ibrutinib . In the phase III ASPEN trial, 201 patients with treatment -naïve or 
relapsed/refractory WM were randomized 1:1 to receive either 
zanubrutinib or ibrutinib . All patients had a MYD88 (L265P)  mutation and 
26% had a CXCR4  mutation. There was no statistical difference in VGPR 
between the zanubrutinib and ibrutinib groups (28% vs. 19%; P  = .09).
56 
The 42- month PFS rate for zanubrutinib was 78% and for ibrutinib was 
70% (HR, 0.63; 95% CI , 0.36– 1.12).57 Zanubrutinib induced higher VGPR 
(21% vs. 10%) and 42 -month PFS rates (73% vs. 49%) than ibrutinib in 
patients with CXCR4  mutations.  
The ASPEN safety data comparing zanubrutinib monotherapy showed a 
decrease in the incidence of atrial fibrillation ( 4% vs. 1 7%) and a lower 
incidence in most non -hematologic AEs compared with ibrutinib. The 
incidence of hematologic AEs was similar except for  neutropenia, in which 
zanubrutinib was associated with a two-fold likelihood of any grade (29% vs. 13%) and grade ≥ 3 (20% vs. 8%) neutropenia compared to ibrutinib. A 
larger proportion of patients received granulocyte colony -stimulating factor  
(G-CSF)  with zanubrutinib compared to ibrutinib.56  
The NCCN Panel has included zanubrutinib as a Preferred Regimen for Primary Therapy (category 1).  
Other Recommended Regimen s for Primary Therapy  
Bendamustine: Based on the durable responses seen in previously treated 
WM, as monotherapy in rituximab -intolerant individuals,58 bendamustine 
has been included as an option for primary therapy for WM. It is also a 
Useful in Certain Circumstances therapy option in patients previously 
treated for WM.  
Bortezomib/Dexamethasone/Rituximab : Bortezomib has shown activity in 
the management of WM as  a single agent,59 in combination with 
rituximab,60 or in combination with rituximab and dexamethasone.61,62 
The study by Waldenström  Macroglobulinemia Clinical Trials Group 
(WMCTG) reported an overall response rate (ORR) of 96%, including 83% 
of patients achieving a partial response (PR) with the combination of IV 
bortezomib (using a twice-a- week schedule) , along with rituximab and 
dexamethasone (BDR) in newly diagnosed patients with WM.61 With a 
median follow -up of 2 years, 80% of patients remained free of disease 
progression, including all patients achieving a VGPR  or better. However, 
grade 3 peripheral neuropathy was observed in 30% of patients.  The 
development of peripheral neuropathy led to premature discontinuation of bortezomib in 61% of patients in this study.  
In another multicenter phase II trial, the activity of BDR (using once -
weekly IV bortezomib) was evaluated in 59 newly diagnosed symptomatic patients with WM.
63 The ORR (including  major and minimal 
response) was 85% (major response rate included: 3% complete PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-8 response [CR], 7% VGPR, and 58% PR). In 11% of patients, an increase 
of IgM (≥25%) was observed after the administration  of rituximab. After 
32 months of follow -up, median PFS was 42 months , and 3 -year OS was 
81%. Peripheral neuropathy was observed in 46% (grade ≥3 in 7%) of 
patients; 8% discontinued bortezomib due to neuropathy.63  
Neuropathy is a primary toxicity observed with bortezomib- based 
regimens. Therefore, evaluation of patients for the development of 
bortezomib- related peripheral or autonomic neuropathy is important. 
Administering bortezomib subcutaneously and once weekly reduces the 
risk of peripheral neuropathy.  Therefore, this is the preferred method of 
administration. While both weekly and twice- weekly dosing schemas of 
bortezomib are appropriate, the  weekly schema is preferred.  
The NCCN Panel has included b ortezomib/ dexamethasone/ rituximab  as 
a treatment option under Other Recommended Regimens for Primary 
Therapy.  
Carfilzomib/Rituximab/Dexamethasone:  A prospective phase II study 
studied the combination of c arfilzomib/rituximab/d examethasone in newly 
diagnosed patients who are symptomatic (n = 31) with WM/LPL.64 Long-
term follow -up demonstrated an ORR of 87% and a median PFS of 46 
months.65 The study found that the response to this regimen was not 
impacted by MYD88  (L265P ) mutation status. Rituximab- associated IgM 
flare (increase of IgM ≥25%) was observed in 23 % of patients. No 
significant peripheral neuropathy was observed in this study. IgA and IgG depletion were commonly observed and necessitated truncation of therapy 
and/or IV Ig use in several patients.
64  
The NCCN Panel has included carfil zomib/rituximab/dexamethasone as a 
treatment option under Other Recommended Regimens for Primary 
Therapy and noted under general considerations that it can potentially 
cause cardiac and pulmonary toxicity, especially in older patients.  Ixazomib/Rituximab/Dexamethasone : A prospective phase II study of 
patients (n = 26) with symptomatic WM  studied the combination of 
ixazomib/rituximab/dexamethasone and found this regimen to be safe and effective as a primary therapy option.
66 All enrolled patients had the 
MYD88  (L265P ) mutation, and 58% had a CXCR4 mutation. The median 
time to response was 8 weeks . The overall  major and VGPR rates were 
96%, 77%, and 19%, respectively, and the median time to response was 8 
weeks.66 The median PFS was 40 months, median duration of response 
(DOR) was 38 months, and the median time to next treatment (TTNT) was 40 months. PFS, DOR, and TTNT were not affected by CXCR4  mutational  
profile.
67 
The NCCN Panel has included ixazomib/rituximab/dexamethasone as a 
treatment option under Other Recommended Regimens for Primary 
Therapy.  
Rituximab : Single -agent rituximab is active in patients with WM; however, 
the response rates of single -agent rituximab using  either standard or 
extended dosing vary between 25% and 45%.44,68,69  Transient increases in 
IgM levels  (also called the IgM flare) have been reported in 40% to 50% of 
patients after initiation of rituximab therapy.70,71  The rituximab- related IgM 
flare may lead to symptomatic hyperviscosity, as well as worsening of IgM -
related neuropathy, cryoglobulinemia, and other IgM -related 
complications.  These levels may persist for months and do not indicate 
disease progression but may necessitate plasmapheresis to reduce IgM 
levels . Prophylactic plasmapheresis can be considered in patients with 
high IgM levels (typically ≥4000 mg/dL)72 before rituximab exposure to 
minimize the risk of symptomatic IgM flare . The risk of IgM flare may be 
decreased in patients receiving rituximab in combination with other 
agents .61 Rituximab may be reasonable for treating patients with IgM anti -
MAG antibody -related neuropathies.73  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-9 Rituximab/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone  With or Without 
Bortezomib: In a prospective study of people with untreated WM  (n = 72) , 
treatment with r ituximab/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone  (R-CD) 
resulted in an ORR of 83% that included a 7% CR and a 67% PR. The 2-
year PFS was 67% for all evaluable individuals  and 80% for  those whose 
disease responded to R- CD. The R -CD regimen was well- tolerated, with 
9% of those experiencing grade 3 or 4 neutropenia and approximately 
20% of individuals  experiencing some form of toxicity related to 
rituximab .74 The 8- year OS  rates based on the IPSS -WM risk status  for 
WM were  100%, 55%, and 27% for low -, intermediate- , and high-risk 
disease, respectively ( P = .005).75 In a retrospective analysis of outcomes 
after treatment with R -CD in 50 people with untreated WM, the ORR was 
96% and the median PFS was 34 months. The response rate and DOR  
were independent of MYD88  mutational  status.76 
A prospective randomized, phase III , open- label clinical trial evaluated the 
efficacy and safety of R -CD versus R- CD plus bortezomib in 204 
treatment -naïve patients with WM.77 The 2 -year PFS was 80.6% (95% CI, 
69.5– 88.0)  and 72.8% (95% CI, 61.3– 81.3)  for R -CD plus bortezomib  and 
R-CD, respectively. Results also indicated a shorter median time to first 
response at 3 months for R -CD plus bortezomib versus 5.5 months for R-
CD. Both regimens were well tolerated, with grade ≥3 AEs occurring in 
49.2% of participants.  
The NCCN Panel has included R- CD with or without bortezomib  as a 
treatment option under Other Recommended Regimens for Primary 
Therapy.  
Rituximab/Cyclophosphamide/Prednisone : The use of 
cyclophosphamide/prednisone/rituximab  (CP-R) has been shown to be 
analogous to the more intense cyclophosphamide -based regimens with 
lesser treatment -related complications.78 A single institutional retrospective 
study examined the outcomes of symptomatic patients with WM who received RCHOP  (n = 23), cyclophosphamide/vincristine/prednisone plus 
rituximab (CVP -R; n = 16), or CP -R (n = 19). Baseline characteristics were 
similar for all three cohorts except for serum IgM levels, which were higher in patients treated with R CHOP ( P ≤ .015). The ORR and CR to the three 
regimens were: R CHOP (ORR, 96%; CR, 17%); CVP -R (ORR, 88%; CR, 
12%); and CP -R (ORR, 95%; CR, 0%). A higher incidence for neutropenic 
fever and treatment -related neuropathy were reported for R CHOP and 
CVP-R versus CP -R (P < .03).
78 
Maintenance Therapy : Retrospective data supported PFS and OS benefits  
with maintenance rituximab after a rituximab -containing regimen.79,80 
However , a recent phase III study in WM patients who attained PR or 
better after six cycles of  BR did not show PFS or OS benefit  of 
maintenance rituximab over observation following induction therapy .49 In 
the subset analysis, patients >65 years and patients with high IPSS  risk 
for WM may have benefited from maintenance.49   
Assessment of Response to Primary Treatment  
Response to therapy in WM is defined by reduction in the IgM  protein. 
According to the updated summary of response categories from the 
Eleventh International Workshop on  Waldenstr öm’s Macroglobulinemia,81 
a minor response is an IgM reduction of ≥ 25%; a PR is defined as  a ≥50% 
reduction in Ig M  a VGPR  is a ≥90% reduction in IgM  and a CR is 
immunofixation negativity in the serum  along with resolution of 
extramedullary disease and clearance of the bone marrow. Stable disease 
is defined as a <25% reduction and <25% increase of serum IgM by 
electrophoresis without progression of adenopathy/organomegaly, cytopenias, or clinically significant symptoms due to disease and/or signs 
of WM . Progressive disease is defined as a 25% increase in serum IgM by 
protein electrophoresis confirmed by a second measurement.  The updated 
summary of response categories and criteria from the Eleventh International Workshop on  Waldenstr öm’s Macroglobulinemia,
81 has been PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-10 included in the NCCN Guidelines (see IWWM -11 Response Criteria for 
Assessment of Disease Response in WM/LPL in the algorithm ).  
An important concern with the use of IgM as a surrogate marker of 
disease is that it can fluctuate independently  of tumor cell killing . 
Rituximab induces a spike or flare in serum IgM levels that  can occur 
when used as monotherapy and in combination with other agents and 
lasts for several weeks to months .23,70,71 Conversely , bortezomib and 
ibrutinib  can suppress IgM levels independent of killing tumor cells in 
certain patients.82,83 One study showed that residual IgM -producing 
plasma cells are spared and persist in patients treated with selective B -
cell–depleting agents such as rituximab, thus potentially skewing the 
relative response and assessment to treatment.84 Therefore, in 
circumstances where  the serum IgM levels appear to be out of context 
with the patient's clinical progress , a bone marrow biopsy should be 
considered to clarify the patient's underlying disease burden.  
Follow -up After Primary Treatment  
After primary therapy, the NCCN P anel recommends assessing the 
response to treatment using consensus Panel criteria outlined on  IWWM -
11 Response Criteria for Assessment of Disease Response in WM/LPL in 
the algorithm .  
The goal of treatment is symptom relief and reducing the risk of organ 
damage. When assessing responses, it is important to recognize that with 
some agents, responses (reduction of IgM) to initial therapies are often 
delayed and may result in underestimation of response.   
If the primary treatment was with a  fixed -duration chemoimmunotherapy 
regimen, patients should be observed for disease progression with tests including CBC, CMP, and IgM every 3 months for 2 years, then every  4–6 
months for an additional 3 years, then every 6– 12 months.  Without symptoms, progression based on serum IgM levels alone should not be a 
reason to restart treatment.  
If treatment is initiated with a BTK i regimen, treatment should be continued 
until symptomatic disease progress ion (beyond biochemical progression)  
or unacceptable toxicity. Rapid increases in IgM levels (IgM rebound) have 
been observed following discontinuation of BTK is. Consider continuing 
therapy with the BTK i until starting the next line of therapy or monitor for 
IgM rebound after discontinuing BTKis . 
If symptoms persist or there is no response to primary treatment, an 
alternate therapy may be administered. If there is disease transformation, 
see Histologic Transformation of Indolent Lymphomas to DLBCL  in the 
NCCN Guidelines for B -Cell Lymphomas .  
 
Therapy for Previously Treated WM  
Many patients inevitably experience relapse after initial therapy and 
require further treatment.85 According to the NCCN Guidelines, 
administering the same regimen used for primary treatment is reasonable 
as therapy for relapsed disease,  especially if the regimen was we ll-
tolerated and the patient had a prolonged response. The P anel notes that 
caution should be used when re- treating with myelosuppressive regimens 
due to cumulative toxicities.  
For patients with remissions lasting <24 months or who show progressive 
disease/resistance to a first -line regimen, second- line treatment may 
include agents of a different class of drugs, either alone or in combination. 
In addition, it is important to avoid exposure to stem cell -damaging agents, 
such as an alkylator  or nucleoside analogs, in patients who are candidates 
for autologous H CT. Regimens that are not toxic to stem cells must be 
offered, especially if stem cells have not previously been harvested.  All 
regimens listed under primary treatment options are effective options for 
consideration in patients with previously treated WM .  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-11 Preferred R egimens for Previously Treated WM/LPL  
Bendamustine/ Rituximab : Bendamustine- based therapy is effective in 
relapsed/refractory WM because it produces high and durable response 
rates . A phase II study of patients with relapsed/refractory WM who 
received bendamustine -based therapy reported an ORR of 83.3%.58 The 
median PFS in patients with refractory WM/LPL was 13.2 months.58 A 
phase I/II study  analyzed the outcome of BR  in patients with 
relapsed/refractory WM. Patients had previously received a median 
number of 2 lines of treatment (range 1– 5). The ORR reported was 
80.2%.86 Another study evaluated the efficacy of BR and R- CD. Of the 160 
patients, 60 received BR (43 with relapsed/refractory WM) , and 100 
received R -CD (50 had relapsed/refractory WM). In patients with 
relapsed/refractory WM, ORR with BR was 95% versus 87% with R -CD 
(P = .45 ); median PFS with BR was 58 versus 32 months with R -CD (2 -
year PFS was 66% vs. 53%; P  = .08).87  
Bendamustine combined with rituximab is listed as one of the preferred 
options for relapsed/refractory disease and single -agent  bendamustine is 
listed under Useful in Certain Circumstances  in the algorithm.  
Ibrutinib  With or Without Rituximab : A phase II trial of  ibrutinib 
monotherapy in patients with symptomatic WM (n = 63) who received at 
least one prior treatment reported an ORR of 90% (10 with a VGPR, 36 
with a PR, 11 with a minor response, and none with a CR) and a median 
time to response of 4 weeks.88 At 5 years, the PFS and OS rates were 
54% and 87%, respectively.89 CXCR4  mutations adversely impacted time 
to response, depth of response , and PFS duration. Treatment -related 
toxic effects of grade 3 or higher included neutropenia (in 16% of 
patients) and thrombocytopenia (in 11% of patients).89  
The results of the phase  III iNNOVATE  trial that included  patients with 
relapsed/refractory WM  (trial details listed under Primary Therapy for WM/LPL  in the algorithm ) showed the benefit of adding ibruti nib to 
rituximab.  
Based on the above trials , the NCCN Panel has added ibrutinib with or 
without rituximab as one of the Preferr ed Regimens for Therapy for 
Previously Treated WM/LPL (category 1).  
Rituximab/Cyclophosphamide/Dexamethasone : A phase II study 
investigated symptomatic patients with WM  (n = 100), of whom  50 patients 
received at least one cycle of  therapy  for relapsed/refractory WM  and 50 
patients received at least one cycle of the same regimen for newly 
diagnosed WM .76 In the relapsed/refractory setting,  the median PFS 
reported was 32 months (95% CI , 15–51) with 2- and 4- year PFS rates of 
54% and 34%, respectively.76 
The NCCN Panel has included R-CD as one of the Preferred  Regimens 
for Therapy for Previously Treated WM/LPL . 
Zanubrutinib: Based on the phase III ASPEN trial results  that included 
relapsed/refractory WM (trial details listed under Primary Therapy for 
WM/LPL  in the algorithm ), the NCCN Panel has included zanu brutinib as 
one of the Preferred Regimens for Therapy for Previously Treated 
WM/LPL (category 1).  
Other Recommended R egimens for Previously Treated WM/LPL 
Acalabrutinib: Acalabrutinib is another BTKi that  may be considered. A 
single -arm phase II trial analyzed the usage of acalabrutinib in 106 
patients with treatment -naïve or relapsed/refractory WM. Out of the total 
106 enrolled, 14 patients (13%) were treatment- naïve, 41 patients (39%) 
had received ≥ 3 prior therapies, and 33 patients (31%) had refractory 
disease. In treatment -naïve patients, the 24- month OS was 92% and the 
24-month PFS was 90%. In relapsed/refractory patients, the 24 -month OS PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-12 was 89% and the 24 -month PFS was 82%. The most common grade 3/4 
AEs were neutropenia (16%), pneumonia (7%), anemia (5%), and lower 
respiratory tract infection (5%).90  
The NCCN Panel has included acalabrutinib as a treatment option under 
Other Recommended Regimens for Previously Treated WM/LPL.   
Bortezomib/Dexamethasone/Rituximab : The use of bortezomib as 
therapy for relapsed disease is associated with an ORR of 60% when 
administered as a single agent, and of 70% to 80% when in combination 
with rituximab59,82,83,91 -93 with or without dexamethasone.94 Grade 3 
peripheral neuropathy may occur in 30% of patients using the twice -a-
week dosing schedule of bortezomib and in 10% of patients receiving 
once -a-week dosing.  Bortezomib/dexamethasone/rituximab is listed as 
one of the Other Recommended Regimens for Primary Therapy as well 
as Previously Treated WM/LPL.  
Ixazomib/ Rituximab/ Dexamethasone : The results of a phase I/II study in 
patients (n = 59) who had received a median of two prior therapies 
treated with ixazomib/rituximab/dexamethasone showed an ORR of 71% 
(14% VGPR , 37% PR, and 20% minor response) after 8 cycles.95 The 
median DOR  reported was  36 months. The PFS and OS  were 56% and 
88%, respectively , after a median follow -up of 24 months.95 
Based on these data, the NCCN Panel has included 
ixazomib/rituximab/dexamethasone  as a treatment option under Other 
Recommended Regimens for Previously Treated WM/LPL. 
Rituximab/ Cyclophosphamide/ Prednisone : A retrospective study 
examined the outcomes of patients with WM who received three  separate 
rituximab -based regimens : RCHOP  (n = 23), CVP -R (n = 16), or CP -R (n = 
19).78 The results reported the following ORR and CR rates to the  
regimens : RCHOP  (ORR, 96%; CR, 17%); CVP -R (ORR , 88%; CR , 12%); and CP-R (ORR, 95%; CR, 0%). Therapy -related AEs such as 
neutropenic fever and treatment -related neuropathy were higher for 
RCHOP  and CV P-R compared with  CP-R (P < .03).78 
The NCCN Panel has included CP -R as a treatment option under Other 
Recommended Regimens for Previously Treated WM/LPL.   
Venetoclax : Venetoclax is an oral BCL2 antagonist approved for the 
treatment of CLL and AML. BCL2 is an anti -apoptotic protein that is shown 
to be overexpressed in primary WM cells.96 A phase II trial analyzed 
venetoclax monotherapy in 33 patients with previously treated WM. All patients had a MYD88  (L265P) mutation,  and 17 patients (53%) had a 
CXCR4  mutation. At median follow- up of 33 months, the median PFS was 
30 months. At time of data cutoff, the 30- month OS was 100% and the 
ORR was 84%. There was no difference in major response rate nor PFS on the basis of CXCR4  mutational status. The most common grade 3/4 AE  
was neutropenia (42%).
97 The NCCN Panel has included venetoclax as a 
treatment option under Other Recommended Regimens for Previously 
Treated WM/LPL.  
Regimens Useful in C ertain Circumstances for Previously Treated 
WM/LPL  
Cladribine Alone or with Rituximab: Cladribine, a nucleoside analogue, 
has been studied alone or in combination with rituximab and found to 
induce good ORRs with prolonged survivals.98-100 In a phase II trial of 
cladribine with rituximab in 29 patients with newly diagnosed or previously 
treated WM, reported ORRs and CR rates were 90% and 24%, respectively . Cladribine with or without rituximab is listed under Useful in 
Certain Circumstances for Therapy for Previously Treated WM/LPL. 
Everolimus : Everolimus, an inhibitor of mTOR, is a potentially effective 
drug in treating WM, with high single- agent activity but substantial toxicity. PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-13 With a different mechanism of action, it offers an alternate therapeutic 
strategy for patients with relapsed/refractory WM. A phase II trial of single-
agent everolimus was initiated in 60 patients with relapsed or 
relapsed/refractory WM.101 The response rate (minor response or better) 
was 73% with a PR rate of 50% and a minor response rate of 23%.102 The 
median PFS was 21 months. Grade 3- or 4-related toxicities were reported 
in 67% of patients. Dose reductions due to toxicity were made in 62% of patients. The most frequently  reported hematologic toxicities were 
cytopenias. Pulmonary toxicity was seen in 5% of patients.
102 The study 
reported that partial response to treatment was achieved after a median of 
2 months. Everolimus  is listed in the algorithm under Useful in Certain 
Circumstances  for Therapy for Previously Treated WM/LPL . 
Fludarabine Alone or With Rituximab : Like cladribine, fludarabine is a 
nucleoside analogue and has been studied alone or in combination with 
rituximab and/or cyclophosphamide in patients with newly diagnosed WM. 
A phase III trial showed that monotherapy with fludarabine was more effective than chlorambucil in terms of PFS (36.3 vs. 27.1 months; P = 
.012), DOR  (38.3 vs. 19.9 months; P  < .001) , and OS (not reached in the 
fludarabine arm vs. 69.8 months  [95% CI, 61.6– 79.8 months; P = .014 ] in 
the chlorambucil arm).
103  
A prospective, multicenter trial evaluated treatment with fludarabine with 
rituximab  in patients with WM (n = 43) who had received <2  prior 
therapies, of whom 63% had received no prior therapy. The ORR was 
95%. The reported median time to progression for all patients was 51.2 
months and was longer for untreated patients ( P = .017) and those 
achieving at least a VGPR ( P = .049).  After a median follow -up of 40.3 
months, 3 cases with transformation to aggressive lymphoma and 3 cases 
with MDS/AML were reported .104 Fludarabine used alone or in combination 
with rituximab is listed in the algorithm under Useful in Certain Circumstances  for Therapy for Previously Treated WM/LPL . Fludarabine/Cyclophosphamide/Rituximab : A retrospective study of 
patients with relapsed/refractory WM reported an ORR of 80% after 
treatment with fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab  (FCR), with 
32.5% (n  = 13) of patients reaching at least a VGPR.105 Another 
multicenter , prospective trial evaluated the quality of response in 43 
patients with WM receiving FCR, who were either  previously untreated or 
pretreated with chemotherapy.106 Most of the participants  in this study 
(65%) received FCR as first -line treatment, 28% of people  had relapsed 
disease , and 7% had disease that was refractory to a previous line of 
treatment.  The results demonstrated that FCR produces rapid response 
rates of 79%, with high rates of CR and VGPR . There is a risk of PJP 
associated with FCR treatment, including late onset of PJP .107 Therefore, 
the NCCN P anel recommends PJP prophylaxis for those treated with the 
FCR regimen . 
Nucleoside analogs have shown efficacy in relapsed/refractory WM/LPL 
either alone or in combination with rituximab.100,104,106 All cladribine - and 
fludarabine- containing regimens have been listed in the algorithm under 
Useful in Certain Circumstances  for Therapy for Previously Treated 
WM/LP L.  
Pirtobrutinib: Pirtobrutinib, a highly selective, non -covalent BTKi has 
demonstrated favorable results in relapsed or refractory B -cell 
malignancies with a poor prognosis, including patients who have previously received covalent BTKis.
108 The phase I/II BRUIN study 
evaluated the efficacy of pirtobrutinib in individuals with WM who had received prior chemotherapy + anti -CD20 antibody, ≥1 prior BTKi , or 
chemotherapy + anti -CD20 antibody + BTKi. Of the response -evaluable 
patients (n = 72), the major response rate was 68% (95% CI, 56– 79). In 
those who had received ≥1 prior BTKi , chemotherapy + anti -CD20 
antibody, and chemotherapy + anti -CD20 antibody + BTKi, the major 
response rate s were  64%, 68%, and 64%, respectively. The 6- month PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-14 estimated DOR (regardless of previous treatment) was 86% (95% CI, 69–
94). Two percent of patients discontinued the trial due to treatment -related 
AEs. Pirtobrutinib is listed in the algorithm under Useful in Certain 
Circumstances  for Therapy for Previously Treated WM/LPL . 
Rituximab : Treatment with single -agent rituximab has been reported to 
produce 40% to 50% response rates .68,71,109 The NCCN Panel has 
included single -agent rituximab as a treatment option under Useful in 
Certain Circumstances for Previously Treated WM/LPL.  For those 
individuals who are unable to tolerate rituximab, ofatumumab was previously listed as an option.  
110 However, since it is no longer available 
for use in hematologic malignancies, it has been removed as an option.  
Results from an  open- label, phase 2, single- arm study  suggest that 
obinutuzumab may have clinical activity in WM.111 A total of 23 patients 
were enrolled in the study with a median age of 66 years and a median of 
1 prior treatment. The median follow -up duration was 20.7 months. The 
ORR at the end of induction was 52.2%, with 21.7% achieving a VGPR  or 
better. The PFS and OS rates at 18 months were 68% and 90%, respectively. AEs occurred in 95.7% of patients, with the most common 
being infections, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. Severe AEs 
occurred in 69.6% of patients, and two deaths were reported, one due to 
cardiac i nsufficiency and another related to COVID -19. The NCCN P anel 
consensus was to add o binutuzumab as an option for consideration in 
patients who are unable to tolerate rituximab.  
RCHOP :
 RCHOP  is a stem cell –sparing regimen reported to be active and 
tolerated by patients with WM.78,112,113 It has been reported as having a 
≥90% response rate in patients with WM.78,113,114 In a randomized study 
involving 69 patients, most of whom had WM, the addition of rituximab to 
CHOP resulted in a higher ORR (94% vs. 67%) and median time to 
progression (63 vs. 22 months) in comparison to patients treated with 
CHOP alone.113 The addition of vincristine to cyclophosphamide-containing regimens is associated with risk of neuropathy in patients with 
WM.61 According to the NCCN Panel, since vincristine is associated with a 
high risk of peripheral neuropathy in patients with WM/LPL, regimens 
without vincristine ( eg, cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone/rituximab), may 
be considered if cyclophosphamide- based therapy is being considered.  
Hematopoietic Cell Transplant   
HCT is also an option for relapsed WM in selected patients .115-117 HCT 
options listed in the NCCN Guidelines for WM/LPL are for high- dose 
therapy with autologous stem cell rescue.115,116 According to the NCCN 
Panel, myeloablative or non- myeloablative allogeneic H CT may be 
considered,115 but in the context of a clinical trial.  
Management of Bing-Neel Syndrome  
Bing-Neel syndrome (BNS) is a rare manifestation of WM  that results in 
the migration of LPCs to the central nervous system  (CNS) .118,119 
Neurologic deficits concerning BNS  include but are not limited to 
headaches, seizures, cranial nerve palsies, weakness in limbs, and 
atypical neuropathy.  Differential diagnosis of BNS includes hyperviscosity 
syndrome (HVS) with CNS manifestation,  which  can present as  new onset 
of neurologic symptoms  such as headaches,  visual impairment, and nose 
bleeds.120,121 HVS with CNS involvement can be differentiated from BNS 
by confirming an appropriate increase in serum IgM consistent with levels 
detected in those with WM , in conjunction with abnormal  imaging and/or 
the presence of clonal B  cells in CSF or  cerebral  tissue.122 Diagnostic 
criteria and workup of BNS includes histology, CSF analysis, molecular 
testing, radiology, and blood analysis.120 Neuroimaging is encouraged in 
order to exclude differential diagnosis and aid in the selection of an 
appropriate site for biopsy.120 Two forms of CNS involvement (diffuse and 
tumoral) can be best evaluated after gadolinium administration and MRI.120 
The diffuse form is associated with infiltration of lymphoid cells in the PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-15 leptomeningeal sheath and perivascular space . This form presents as an 
enhancement or thickening of the meningeal sheath. Conversely, the 
tumoral form can be multifocal or unifocal and is found deep in the 
subcortical hemisphere.120 CNS lymphoma histology cannot be detected 
on an MRI and thus  BNS cannot be excluded in the absence of MRI 
findings. Diagnostic criteria for BNS include histologic biopsy of the 
cerebrum or meninges positive for  clonal B cells  with morphologic 
evidence of LPL . Analysis of the CSF should include cell count and 
differentiation, morphologic analysis, flow cytometry, and molecular testing to increase the sensitivity for detecting the presence of malignant B cells in 
the CSF. Analysis of CSF should be done routinely and should not 
precede the MRI to eliminate CSF sampling- induced meningeal 
enhancement.
120 Ig gene rearrangement assays can also be performed to 
determine clonal characteristics of a B -cell population. In addition, 
mutations in MYD88  with an amino acid point mutation L265P have been 
detected in 93 % to 97% of individuals with WM , using highly sensitive 
diagnostic techniques such as allele- specific PCR.120 Definitive diagnosis 
of BNS includes presence of clonal B  cells in CSF or within a tissue biopsy 
with a typical manifestation and presentation of  systemic disease. 
Diagnosis can be confirmed with or without leptomeningeal enhancement 
or masses detected with an MRI. A probable diagnosis is made  with 
abnormal MRI findings without evidence of clonal B cells  in CSF or tissue 
biopsy.  
If a person has abnormal test results but remains  asymptomatic , their 
treatment will continue with routine observation. If a person is 
symptomatic , various  systemic therapy options are recommended; 
preferred regimens include BTK is such as ibrutinib123 and zanubrutinib. 
Other recommended regimens include chemotherapy agents such as 
bendamustine, cytarabine, fludarabine, and methotrexate. Regimens 
useful in certain circumstances include intrathecal methotrexate and 
radiotherapy . If systemic control is needed, rituximab can be added to any of the above regimens.  BNS is a rare and usually a late manifestation in 
those with WM. It can develop when a person is in remission or less 
typically at the beginning of disease manifestation.124 When BNS develops 
later in the disease , it is usually associated with a worse prognosis.120,125 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-16 References  
1. Owen  RG, Treon SP, Al -Katib A, et al. Clinicopathological definition of 
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: consensus panel recommendations 
from the Second International Workshop on Waldenstrom's 
Macroglobulinemia. Semin Oncol 2003;30:110 -115. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12720118 . 
2. Harris NL, Jaffe ES, Diebold J, et al. World Health Organization 
classification of neoplastic diseases of the hematopoietic and lymphoid 
tissues: report of the Clinical Advisory Committee meeting- Airlie House, 
Virginia, November 1997. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17:3835- 3849. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10577857 . 
3. Swerdlow S, Campo, E, Harris, NL, et al. WHO Classification of 
tumours of haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues.: Lyon, France: IARC 
Press; 2008. p194.  
4. Sekhar J, Sanfilippo K, Zhang Q, et al. Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia: a Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results 
database review from 1988 to 2005. Leuk Lymphoma 2012;53:1625 -1626. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22239669.  
5. Key Statistics About Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia. American Cancer Society; 2018. Available at: 
https://www.cancer.org/cancer/types/waldenstrom -
macroglobulinemia/about/key -
statistics.html#:~:text=On%20this%20page,Survival%20Rates%20for%20
Waldenstrom%20Macroglobulinemia. Accessed January 3, 2025.  
6. Yin X, Chen L, Fan F, et al. Trends in incidence and mortality of 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: A population- based study. Front Oncol 
2020;10:1712. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33014849 . 
7. U.S. National Library of Medicine- Key MEDLINE® Indicators. Available 
at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/ . Accessed January 3, 2025.  8. WHO Classification of Tumours of Haematopoietic and Lymphoid 
Tissues. Vol. 2 (Ed Revised 4th Edition). Geneva: WHO Press: Lyon, 
France: IARC Press; 2017.  
9. Hunter ZR, Branagan AR, Manning R, et al. CD5, CD10, and CD23 
expression in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma 
2005;5:246 -249. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15794857 . 
10. Konoplev S, Medeiros LJ, Bueso- Ramos CE, et al. Immunophenotypic 
profile of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. 
Am J Clin Pathol 2005;124:414- 420. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16191510 . 
11. Treon SP, Xu L, Yang G, et al. MYD88 L265P somatic mutation in 
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. N Engl J Med 2012;367:826 -833. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22931316.  
12. Castillo JJ, Garcia -Sanz R, Hatjiharissi E, et al. Recommendations for 
the diagnosis and initial evaluation of patients with Waldenstrom 
Macroglobulinaemia: A Task Force from the 8th International Workshop on 
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinaemia. Br J Haemat ol 2016;175:77 -86. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27378193.  
13. Foundation IWsM. Laboratory Diagnosis and Monitoring of Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia Fact Sheet. In: IWMF ed; 2023. 
Available at: https://iwmf.com/wp -content/uploads/2023/05/Lab -Fact-
Sheet -May-2023.pdf . 
14. Kyle RA, Treon SP, Alexanian R, et al. Prognostic markers and criteria 
to initiate therapy in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: consensus panel 
recommendations from the Second International Workshop on 
Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia. Semin Oncol 2003;30:116 -120. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12720119.  
15. Morel P, Duhamel A, Gobbi P, et al. International prognostic scoring system for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Blood 2009;113:4163- 4170. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19196866.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-17 16. Paiva B, Montes MC, Garcia- Sanz R, et al. Multiparameter flow 
cytometry for the identification of the Waldenstrom's clone in IgM -MGUS 
and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia: new criteria for differential 
diagnosis and risk stratification. Leukemia 2014;28:166- 173. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23604227 . 
17. Ondrejka SL, Lin JJ, Warden DW, et al. MYD88 L265P somatic 
mutation: its usefulness in the differential diagnosis of bone marrow 
involvement by B -cell lymphoproliferative disorders. Am J Clin Pathol 
2013;140:387 -394. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23955458 . 
18. Varettoni M, Arcaini L, Zibellini S, et al. Prevalence and clinical 
significance of the MYD88 (L265P) somatic mutation in Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia and related lymphoid neoplasms. Blood 
2013;121:2522 -2528. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23355535 . 
19. Treon SP, Xu L, Hunter Z. MYD88 mutations and response to ibrutinib in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. N Engl J Med 2015;373:584- 586. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26244327.  
20. Menke MN, Feke GT, McMeel JW, et al. Hyperviscosity -related 
retinopathy in waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Arch Ophthalmol 
2006;124:1601 -1606. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17102008 . 
21. Crisp D, Pruzanski W. B -cell neoplasms with homogeneous cold-
reacting antibodies (cold agglutinins). Am J Med 1982;72:915 -922. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6807086.  
22. Cingam S, Sidana S. Differential diagnosis of Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia and early management: Perspectives from clinical 
practice. Blood Lymphat Cancer 2022;12:107 -117. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36003901 . 
23. Treon SP. How I treat Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Blood 
2009;114:2375 -2385. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19617573 . 24. Berentsen S. Cold agglutinin- mediated autoimmune hemolytic anemia 
in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma 
2009;9:110 -112. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19362990 . 
25. Berentsen S, D’Sa S, Randen U, et al. Cold agglutinin disease: Improved understanding of pathogenesis helps define targets for therapy. 
Hemato 2022;3:574- 594. Available at: https://www.mdpi.com/2673-
6357/3/4/40.  
26. Kaiser LM, Hunter ZR, Treon SP, Buske C. CXCR4 in Waldenstrom's 
Macroglobulinema: chances and challenges. Leukemia 2021;35:333 -345. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33273682.  
27. Stone MJ. Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: hyperviscosity 
syndrome and cryoglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma 2009;9:97- 99. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19362986.  
28. Charles ED, Dustin LB. Hepatitis C virus -induced cryoglobulinemia. 
Kidney Int 2009;76:818 -824. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19606079 . 
29. Villadolid J, Laplant KD, Markham MJ, et al. Hepatitis B reactivation and rituximab in the oncology practice. Oncologist 2010;15:1113 -1121. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20930099.  
30. Garces -Sanchez M, Dyck PJ, Kyle RA, et al. Antibodies to myelin-
associated glycoprotein (anti -Mag) in IgM amyloidosis may influence 
expression of neuropathy in rare patients. Muscle Nerve 2008;37:490- 495. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18236455.  
31. Levine T, Pestronk A, Florence J, et al. Peripheral neuropathies in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinaemia. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 
2006;77:224 -228. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16421127 . 
32. D'Sa S, Kersten MJ, Castillo JJ, et al. Investigation and management of IgM and Waldenstrom -associated peripheral neuropathies: 
recommendations from the IWWM -8 consensus panel. Br J Haematol PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-18 2017;176:728 -742. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28198999 . 
33. Teras LR, DeSantis CE, Cerhan JR, et al. 2016 US lymphoid 
malignancy statistics by World Health Organization subtypes. CA Cancer J 
Clin 2016;66:443- 459. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27618563 . 
34. Kastritis E, Kyrtsonis MC, Morel P, et al. Competing risk survival 
analysis in patients with symptomatic Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: 
the impact of disease unrelated mortality and of rituximab- based primary 
therapy. Haematologica 2015;100:e446 -449. A vailable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26294729 . 
35. Bustoros M, Sklavenitis -Pistofidis R, Kapoor P, et al. Progression risk 
stratification of asymptomatic Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. J Clin 
Oncol 2019;37:1403 -1411. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30990729 . 
36. Castillo JJ, Olszewski AJ, Cronin AM, et al. Survival trends in 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: an analysis of the Surveillance, 
Epidemiology and End Results database. Blood 2014;123:3999 -4000. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24948623.  
37. Kyle RA, Benson JT, Larson DR, et al. Progression in smoldering 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: long- term results. Blood 2012;119:4462 -
4466. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22451426 . 
38. Kyle RA, Larson DR, Therneau TM, et al. Long- term follow- up of 
monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. N Engl J Med 
2018;378:241 -249. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29342381 . 
39. Kastritis E, Leblond V, Dimopoulos MA, et al. Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinaemia: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, 
treatment and follow -up. Ann Oncol 2019;30:860- 862. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30520968 . 40. Castillo JJ, Advani RH, Branagan AR, et al. Consensus treatment recommendations from the tenth International Workshop for Waldenstrom 
Macroglobulinaemia. Lancet Haematol 2020;7:e827- e837. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33091356 . 
41. Pratt G, El -Sharkawi D, Kothari J, et al. Diagnosis and management of 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinaemia- A British Society for Haematology 
guideline. Br J Haematol 2022;197:171- 187. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35020191 . 
42. Schwartz J, Padmanabhan A, Aqui N, et al. Guidelines on the Use of 
Therapeutic Apheresis in Clinical Practice- Evidence- Based Approach from 
the Writing Committee of the American Society for Apheresis: The 
Seventh Special Issue. J Clin Apher 2016;31:149 -162. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27322218 . 
43. Leleu X, Soumerai J, Roccaro A, et al. Increased incidence of transformation and myelodysplasia/acute leukemia in patients with 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia treated with nucleoside analogs. J Clin 
Oncol 2009;27:250 -255. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19064987 . 
44. Dimopoulos MA, Zervas C, Zomas A, et al. Extended rituximab therapy for previously untreated patients with Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma 2002;3:163 -166. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12521393 . 
45. Bendamustine. DRUGBANK Online; 2024. Available at: 
https://go.drugbank.com/drugs/DB06769. Accessed September 30, 2024.  
46. Laribi K, Poulain S, Willems L, et al. Long- term results of Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinaemia treatment by bendamustine and rituximab: A study on 
behalf of the French Innovative Leukemia Organization (FILO). Br J 
Haematol 2024;204:2233- 2236. Available at:  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38504454 . 
47. Rummel MJ, von Gruenhagen U, Niederle N, et al. Bendamustine plus 
rituximab versus CHOP plus rituximab in the first -line treatment of patients 
with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: first interim results of a PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-19 randomized phase III study of the Studygroup Indolent Lymphomas (StiL) 
[abstract]. Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on 
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia; Stockholm, Sweden 2008;Abstract 
139. Available at:  
48. Rummel MJ, Niederle N, Maschmeyer G, et al. Bendamustine plus 
rituximab versus CHOP plus rituximab as first -line treatment for patients 
with indolent and mantle- cell lymphomas: an open -label, multicentre, 
randomised, phase 3 non- inferiority trial. Lanc et 2013;381:1203 -1210. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23433739.  
49. Greil R, Wupperfeld J, Hinke A, et al. Two years rituximab maintenance vs. observation after first line treatment with bendamustine 
plus rituximab (B -R) in patients with Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia 
(MW): Results of a prospective, randomized, multic enter phase 3 study 
(the StiL NHL7 -2008 MAINTAIN trial). Blood 2019;134:343 -343. Available 
at: https://doi.org/10.1182/blood- 2019- 121909 . 
50. Advani RH, Buggy JJ, Sharman JP, et al. Bruton tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor ibrutinib (PCI -32765) has significant activity in patients with 
relapsed/refractory B -cell malignancies. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:88- 94. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23045577.  
51. Izutsu K, Kato H, Sekiguchi N, et al. A phase 2, open -label study of 
ibrutinib plus rituximab in Japanese patients with Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia. Int J Hematol 2024;120:80 -90. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38597986 . 
52. Castillo JJ, Meid K, Gustine JN, et al. Long -term follow -up of ibrutinib 
monotherapy in treatment -naive patients with Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia. Leukemia 2022;36:532- 539. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34531537 . 
53. Dimopoulos MA, Tedeschi A, Trotman J, et al. Phase 3 trial of ibrutinib 
plus rituximab in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. N Engl J Med 
2018;378:2399 -2410. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29856685 . 54. Buske C, Tedeschi A, Trotman J, et al. Ibrutinib treatment in 
Waldenström's macroglobulinemia: Follow -up efficacy and safety from the 
iNNOVATE study. Blood 2018;132:149 -149. Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood- 2018- 99-111178.  
55. Buske C, Tedeschi A, Trotman J, et al. Ibrutinib plus rituximab versus 
placebo plus rituximab for Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: Final 
analysis from the randomized phase III iNNOVATE study. J Clin Oncol 
2022;40:52 -62. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34606378 . 
56. Tam CS, Opat S, D'Sa S, et al. A randomized phase 3 trial of zanubrutinib vs ibrutinib in symptomatic Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: 
the ASPEN study. Blood 2020;136:2038 -2050. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32731259 . 
57. Dimopoulos MA, Opat S, D'Sa S, et al. Zanubrutinib versus ibrutinib in 
symptomatic Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: Final analysis from the 
randomized phase III ASPEN study. J Clin Oncol 2023;41:5099 -5106. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37478390.  
58. Treon SP, Hanzis C, Tripsas C, et al. Bendamustine therapy in 
patients with relapsed or refractory Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. 
Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2011;11:133 -135. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21454214 . 
59. Chen CI, Kouroukis CT, White D, et al. Bortezomib is active in patients 
with untreated or relapsed Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: a phase II 
study of the National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group. J 
Clin Oncol 2007;25:1570 -1575. Avail able at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17353550 . 
60. Ghobrial IM, Xie W, Padmanabhan S, et al. Phase II trial of weekly bortezomib in combination with rituximab in untreated patients with 
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia. Am J Hematol 2010;85:670 -674. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20652865.  
61. Treon SP, Ioakimidis L, Soumerai JD, et al. Primary therapy of 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia with bortezomib, dexamethasone, and PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-20 rituximab: WMCTG clinical trial 05 -180. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:3830- 3835. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19506160.  
62. Chen C, Kouroukis CT, White D, et al. Bortezomib in relapsed or 
refractory Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma 
2009;9:74 -76. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19362979 . 
63. Dimopoulos MA, Garcia- Sanz R, Gavriatopoulou M, et al. Primary 
therapy of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM) with weekly bortezomib, 
low-dose dexamethasone, and rituximab (BDR): long- term results of a 
phase 2 study of the European Myeloma Network (EMN) . Blood 
2013;122:3276 -3282. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24004667 . 
64. Treon SP, Tripsas CK, Meid K, et al. Carfilzomib, rituximab, and 
dexamethasone (CaRD) treatment offers a neuropathy -sparing approach 
for treating Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Blood 2014;124:503- 510. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24859363.  
65. Meid K, Dubeau T, Severns P, et al. Long -term follow- up of a 
prospective clinical trial of carfilzomib, rituximab and dexamethasone 
(CaRD) in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Blood 2017;130:2772- 2772. 
Available at: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006497119832883.  
66. Castillo JJ, Meid K, Gustine JN, et al. Prospective clinical trial of 
ixazomib, dexamethasone, and rituximab as primary therapy in 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Clin Cancer Res 2018;24:3247- 3252. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29661775.  
67. Castillo JJ, Meid K, Flynn CA, et al. Ixazomib, dexamethasone, and 
rituximab in treatment -naive patients with Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia: long- term follow -up. Blood Adv 2020;4:3952- 3959. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32822482.  
68. Gertz MA, Rue M, Blood E, et al. Multicenter phase 2 trial of rituximab 
for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM): an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Study (E3A98). Leuk Lymphoma 2004;45:2047- 2055. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15370249.  
69. Treon SP, Emmanouilides C, Kimby E, et al. Extended rituximab 
therapy in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Ann Oncol 2005;16:132-
138. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15598950 . 
70. Ghobrial IM, Fonseca R, Greipp PR, et al. Initial immunoglobulin M 
'flare' after rituximab therapy in patients diagnosed with Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia: an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Study. 
Cancer 2004;101:2593 -2598. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15493038 . 
71. Treon SP, Branagan AR, Hunter Z, et al. Paradoxical increases in serum IgM and viscosity levels following rituximab in Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia. Ann Oncol 2004;15:1481 -1483. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15367407 . 
72. Treon SP. How I treat Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Blood 
2015;126:721 -732. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26002963 . 
73. Zivkovic SA. Rituximab in the treatment of peripheral neuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy. Expert Rev Neurother 
2006;6:1267 -1274. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17009914 . 
74. Dimopoulos MA, Anagnostopoulos A, Kyrtsonis MC, et al. Primary 
treatment of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia with dexamethasone, 
rituximab, and cyclophosphamide. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3344 -3349. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17577016.  
75. Kastritis E, Gavriatopoulou M, Kyrtsonis MC, et al. Dexamethasone, 
rituximab, and cyclophosphamide as primary treatment of Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia: final analysis of a phase 2 study. Blood 
2015;126:1392 -1394. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26359434 . PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-21 76. Paludo J, Abeykoon JP, Kumar S, et al. Dexamethasone, rituximab 
and cyclophosphamide for relapsed and/or refractory and treatment -naive 
patients with Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Br J Haematol 2017;179:98 -105. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28786474 . 
77. Buske C, Dimopoulos MA, Grunenberg A, et al. Bortezomib -
dexamethasone, rituximab, and cyclophosphamide as first -line treatment 
for Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: A prospectively randomized trial of 
the European Consortium for Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia. J Clin 
Oncol 2023;41:2607 -2616. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36763945 . 
78. Ioakimidis L, Patterson CJ, Hunter ZR, et al. Comparative outcomes 
following CP -R, CVP -R, and CHOP -R in Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma 2009;9:62 -66. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19362976 . 
79. Treon SP, Hanzis C, Manning RJ, et al. Maintenance rituximab is 
associated with improved clinical outcome in rituximab naive patients with 
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinaemia who respond to a rituximab -containing 
regimen. Br J Haematol 2011;154:357 -362. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21615385 . 
80. Castillo JJ, Gustine JN, Meid K, et al. Response and survival for 
primary therapy combination regimens and maintenance rituximab in 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinaemia. Br J Haematol 2018;181:77 -85. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29468652.  
81. Treon SP, Tedeschi A, San- Miguel J, et al. Report of consensus Panel 
4 from the 11th International Workshop on Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia on diagnostic and response criteria. Semin Hematol 
2023;60:97 -106. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37173155 . 
82. Treon SP, Hunter ZR, Matous J, et al. Multicenter clinical trial of bortezomib in relapsed/refractory Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: 
results of WMCTG Trial 03- 248. Clin Cancer Res 2007;13:3320- 3325. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17545538.  83. Strauss SJ, Maharaj L, Hoare S, et al. Bortezomib therapy in patients 
with relapsed or refractory lymphoma: potential correlation of in vitro 
sensitivity and tumor necrosis factor alpha response with clinical activity. J 
Clin Oncol 2006;24:2105 -2112. A vailable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16606971 . 
84. Varghese AM, Rawstron AC, Ashcroft AJ, et al. Assessment of bone 
marrow response in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma 
Myeloma 2009;9:53- 55. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19362973 . 
85. Kapoor P, Ansell SM, Fonseca R, et al. Diagnosis and Management of 
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia: Mayo Stratification of 
Macroglobulinemia and Risk -Adapted Therapy (mSMART) Guidelines 
2016. JAMA Oncol 2017;3:1257- 1265. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28056114 . 
86. Tedeschi A, Picardi P, Ferrero S, et al. Bendamustine and rituximab 
combination is safe and effective as salvage regimen in Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinemia. Leuk Lymphoma 2015;56:2637- 2642. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25651423 . 
87. Paludo J, Abeykoon JP, Shreders A, et al. Bendamustine and 
rituximab (BR) versus dexamethasone, rituximab, and cyclophosphamide 
(DRC) in patients with Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Ann Hematol 
2018;97:1417 -1425. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29610969 . 
88. Treon SP, Tripsas CK, Meid K, et al. Ibrutinib in previously treated Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. N Engl J Med 2015;372:1430 -1440. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25853747.  
89. Treon SP, Meid K, Gustine J, et al. Long- term follow -up of ibrutinib 
monotherapy in symptomatic, previously treated patients with 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 2021;39:565 -575. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32931398.  
90. Owen RG, McCarthy H, Rule S, et al. Acalabrutinib monotherapy in 
patients with Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: a single- arm, multicentre, PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-22 phase 2 study. Lancet Haematol 2020;7:e112- e121. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31866281 . 
91. Dimopoulos MA, Anagnostopoulos A, Kyrtsonis MC, et al. Treatment 
of relapsed or refractory Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia with 
bortezomib. Haematologica 2005;90:1655- 1658. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16330439 . 
92. Ghobrial IM, Hong F, Padmanabhan S, et al. Phase II trial of weekly 
bortezomib in combination with rituximab in relapsed or relapsed and 
refractory Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1422-
1428. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20142586 . 
93. Agathocleous A, Rohatiner A, Rule S, et al. Weekly versus twice 
weekly bortezomib given in conjunction with rituximab, in patients with 
recurrent follicular lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma and Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinaemia. Br J Haematol 2010;151:346- 353. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20880120 . 
94. Jagannath S, Richardson PG, Barlogie B, et al. Bortezomib in combination with dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with 
relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma with less than optimal 
response to bortezomib alone. Haematologica 2006;91:929 -934. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16818280.  
95. Kersten MJ, Amaador K, Minnema MC, et al. Combining ixazomib with 
subcutaneous rituximab and dexamethasone in relapsed or refractory 
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia: Final analysis of the phase I/II 
HOVON124/ECWM -R2 study. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:40- 51. A vailable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34388022 . 
96. Cao Y, Yang G, Hunter ZR, et al. The BCL2 antagonist ABT -199 
triggers apoptosis, and augments ibrutinib and idelalisib mediated 
cytotoxicity in CXCR4 Wild -type and CXCR4 WHIM mutated Waldenstrom 
macroglobulinaemia cells. Br J Haematol 2015;170:134- 138. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25582069 . 97. Castillo JJ, Allan JN, Siddiqi T, et al. Venetoclax in previously treated Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:63 -71. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34793256.  
98. Dimopoulos MA, Kantarjian H, Estey E, et al. Treatment of 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia with 2- chlorodeoxyadenosine. Ann Intern 
Med 1993;118:195 -198. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8093333 . 
99. Weber DM, Dimopoulos MA, Delasalle K, et al. 2 -
Chlorodeoxyadenosine alone and in combination for previously untreated 
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Semin Oncol 2003;30:243 -247. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12720145.  
100. Laszlo D, Andreola G, Rigacci L, et al. Rituximab and subcutaneous 
2-chloro- 2'-deoxyadenosine combination treatment for patients with 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: clinical and biologic results of a phase II multicenter study. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:2233 -2238. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20368573 . 
101. Ghobrial IM, Gertz MA, LaPlant B, et al. A phase II trial of the oral mTOR inhibitor everolimus (RAD001) in relapsed or refractory 
waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia [abstract]. Blood 2009;114:Abstract 
587. Available at: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006497119534000.  
102. Ghobrial IM, Witzig TE, Gertz M, et al. Long- term results of the phase 
II trial of the oral mTOR inhibitor everolimus (RAD001) in relapsed or refractory Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia. Am J Hematol 2014;89:237 -
242. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24716234 . 
103. Leblond V, Johnson S, Chevret S, et al. Results of a randomized trial 
of chlorambucil versus fludarabine for patients with untreated 
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia, marginal zone lymphoma, or 
lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:301 -307. Av ailable 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23233721.  
104. Treon SP, Branagan AR, Ioakimidis L, et al. Long- term outcomes to 
fludarabine and rituximab in Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Blood PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-23 2009;113:3673 -3678. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19015393 . 
105. Tedeschi A, Ricci F, Goldaniga MC, et al. Fludarabine, 
cyclophosphamide, and rituximab in salvage therapy of Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 2013;13:231- 234. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23490992.  
106. Tedeschi A, Benevolo G, Varettoni M, et al. Fludarabine plus 
cyclophosphamide and rituximab in Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: an 
effective but myelosuppressive regimen to be offered to patients with 
advanced disease. Cancer 2012;118:434 -443. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21732338 . 
107. Haeusler GM, Slavin MA, Seymour JF, et al. Late -onset 
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia post -fludarabine, cyclophosphamide 
and rituximab: implications for prophylaxis. Eur J Haematol 2013;91:157 -
163. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23668894 . 
108. Palomba ML, Patel MR, Eyre TA, et al. Efficacy of pirtobrutinib, a highly selective, non -covalent (reversible) BTK inhibitor in relapsed / 
refractory Waldenström macroglobulinemia: Results from the phase 1/2 BRUIN study. Blood 2022;140:557 -560. Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood- 2022- 159123 . 
109. Dimopoulos MA, Zervas C, Zomas A, et al. Treatment of 
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia with rituximab. J Clin Oncol 
2002;20:2327 -2333. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11981004 . 
110. Furman RR, Eradat H, Switzky JC, et al. A phase II trial of 
ofatumumab in subjects with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia [abstract]. 
Blood 2010;116:Abstract 1795. Available at: 
https://ashpublications.org/blood/article/118/21/3701/68991/A -Phase -II-
Trial-of-Ofatumumab -in-Subjects -with?searchresult=1.  
111. Wróbel T, Kalicinska E, Maciej Zaucha J, et al. P1103: 
OBINUTUZUMAB INDUCTION AND MAINTENANCE IN PATIENTS 
WITH RELAPSED/REFRACTORY WALDENSTRÖM MACROGLOBULINAEMIA. Hemasphere 2023;7. Available at: 
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10430969/ . 
112. Treon SP, Hunter Z, Barnagan AR. CHOP plus rituximab therapy in 
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Clin Lymphoma 2005;5:273 -277. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15794864.  
113. Buske C, Hoster E, Dreyling M, et al. The addition of rituximab to 
front-line therapy with CHOP (R -CHOP) results in a higher response rate 
and longer time to treatment failure in patients with lymphoplasmacytic 
lymphoma: results of a randomized trial of the German Low -Grade 
Lymphoma Study Group (GLSG). Leukemia 2009;23:153- 161. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18818699.  
114. Abonour R, Zhang LA, Rajkumar V, et al. Phase II pilot study of rituximab + CHOP in patients with newly diagnosed Waldenstrom's 
macroglobulinemia, an Eastren Cooperative Oncology Group Trial (Study 
E1A02) [abstract]. Blood 2007;110:Asbtract 3616. Avai lable at: 
https://ashpublications.org/blood/article/110/11/3616/58365/Phase -II-Pilot-
Study -of-Rituximab -CHOP -in-Patients . 
115. Kyriakou C, Canals C, Cornelissen JJ, et al. Allogeneic stem -cell 
transplantation in patients with Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: report 
from the Lymphoma Working Party of the European Group for Blood and 
Marrow Transplantation. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:4926 -4934. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20956626 . 
116. Kyriakou C, Canals C, Sibon D, et al. High- dose therapy and 
autologous stem -cell transplantation in Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: 
the Lymphoma Working Party of the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:2227- 2232. A vailable at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20368570 . 
117. Parrondo RD, Moustafa MA, Kapoor P, et al. Autologous stem cell transplant for Waldenström macroglobulinemia in the era of novel 
therapies: Still an underutilized tool? Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 
2020;26:S238. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbmt.2019.12.483.  PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   
Version 3.2025 © 202 5 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.  NCCN Guidelines Version 3.2025 
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/ 
Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma  
MS-24 118. Kotsos D, Chatzileontiadou S, Apsemidou A, et al. Bing- Neel 
syndrome: Real -life experience in personalized diagnostic approach and 
treatment. Front Oncol 2022;12:891052. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35847958 . 
119. Ravi G, Kapoor P. Current approach to Waldenstrom 
Macroglobulinemia. Cancer Treat Res Commun 2022;31:100527. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35149375.  
120. Minnema MC, Kimby E, D'Sa S, et al. Guideline for the diagnosis, 
treatment and response criteria for Bing- Neel syndrome. Haematologica 
2017;102:43 -51. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27758817 . 
121. Wong EY, D’Sa S, Minnema MC, et al. Bing– Neel syndrome: Update 
on diagnosis and treatment. Hemato 2022;3:758 -770. Available at: 
https://www.mdpi.com/2673- 6357/3/4/51 . 
122. Stone MJ, Bogen SA. Evidence- based focused review of 
management of hyperviscosity syndrome. Blood 2012;119:2205 -2208. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22147890.  
123. Castillo JJ, Itchaki G, Paludo J, et al. Ibrutinib for the treatment of Bing-Neel syndrome: a multicenter study. Blood 2019;133:299 -305. 
Available at:  
124. Castillo JJ, D'Sa S, Lunn MP, et al. Central nervous system 
involvement by Waldenstrom macroglobulinaemia (Bing- Neel syndrome): 
a multi -institutional retrospective study. Br J Haematol 2016;172:709- 715. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26686858.  
125. Simon L, Fitsiori A, Lemal R, et al. Bing- Neel syndrome, a rare 
complication of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia: analysis of 44 cases and 
review of the literature. A study on behalf of the French Innovative 
Leukemia Organization (FILO). Haematologica 2015;100:1587 -1594. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26385211.  
 PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Kevin Luo on 7/21/2025 6:13:11 PM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.